Lim Chin Seah, a 42-year-old Singaporean was charged and tried before me on the charge that he: on or about 25th day of June 1999, at about between 5.55pm and 6.06pm did traffic in a controlled drug specified in Class A of the First Schedule of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185) by having in your possession, to wit, on your person 2 packets and 6 sachets containing not less than 15.56g of diamorphine and at Blk 325 Ang Mo Kio Ave 3, #12-1898, Singapore, five (5) packets, 32 sachets and four (4) straws of a substance containing not less than 22.44g of diamorphine amounting to a total of not less than 38.0g of diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking, without any authorisation under the said Act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) and punishable under s 33 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185).
Four other charges preferred against him were stood down pending the trial of the foregoing charge.
At the commencement of the trial, when the plea of the accused was taken, the accused informed the court that he did not intend to contest the charge. Such a plea notwithstanding, the court required the prosecution to prove its case, as had been the practice of the High Court over a long period of time whenever accused persons for some reason chose not to claim trial, since the prescribed mandatory punishment for the offence was the supreme penalty of death.
In the result, the evidence adduced by the prosecution which was by and large undisputed can be summarised as follows.
Following intelligence leads, officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) were keeping watch on the movements of the accused from about 4.25pm on 25 June 1999 in the vicinity of Block 325 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 3, Singapore. The accused was eventually sighted and arrested at about 5.55pm that day after a brief struggle. The accused was then in possession of a ‘Milo’ tin housed in a ‘Shop N Save’ plastic bag. An immediate check done by the officers established that the said ‘Milo’ tin the accused had with him contained two large packets of heroin. A black waist bag also seized from the accused at that time was also found to contain six sachets of heroin.
The accused was shortly taken to his rented Housing and Development Board flat at Block 325 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 3, #12-1898 Singapore, where he had been staying with his girlfriend, Ivy Chen Li Yin. The CNB officers’ knocks on the door of the flat did not receive any positive response. As a result, the CNB operatives forced their way into the flat and found Ivy Chen standing inside. In the ensuing search of the flat, the CNB officers recovered the following exhibits: (a) Two packets of heroin from the room next to the master bedroom;(b) From the master bedroom:- one red plastic bag containing one plastic packet and 19 sachets of heroin;- two sachets and three straws of heroin found on the floor;- one straw of heroin found in a square ‘Hello Kitty Box’;- one sachet of heroin found on top a mini-compo set;- two packets of heroin fround in a blue cash box;- one aluminium foil containing one sachet of heroin;- one blue cash box containing two packets of heroin; and- one pink heart-shaped container containing nine sachets of heroin.
Several drug-related paraphernalia were also retrieved from the flat. They included: - One electric sealing equipment;- One Tanita digital weighing scale;- A large number of empty plastic sachets;- A box of straws; and- One roll of aluminium foil.
Scientific analysis carried out by Dr Angeline Yap Tiong Whei (PW-4) of the Department of Scientific Services (DSS) established that the drugs found both in the Milo tin as well as the six sachets in the waist bag of the accused amounted to not less than 15.56g of diamorphine and the drugs seized from his flat amounted to not less than 22.44g of diamorphine, the total being 38.0g of diamorphine. The prosecution underscored the aspect that the gross weight of the drugs seized from the accused in person that evening was about 946.12g and the drugs seized from his flat a little later was about 1,531.76g making a total of 2,477.88g.
The results of the DSS analysis along with a description of the drugs seized are set out in the following two tables: