The two Accused, Ong Li Xia and Yeo Kim Han have pleaded guilty to 5 offences with which they were jointly charged and which they committed in furtherance of the common intention of each other against the Victim and to two offences each with which they were separately charged. Consequently, they were convicted on all the charges.
Briefly, the charges under the Penal Code, Cap 224 on which the Accused have been convicted are: Joint Charges (i) 1st charge (s 377) - abetting by instigating the Victim with threats to commit an unnatural offence with a dog i.e. by sucking the penis of the said animal. (ii) 6th charge (s 147) - being members of an unlawful assembly with others with the common object to cause hurt to the Victim by slapping, punching and kicking the Victim thereby committing rioting. (iii) 9th charge (s 324) - causing hurt to the Victim by hitting her with a weapon a stick. (iv) 10th charge (s 509) - intruding upon the privacy of the Victim andforcing her to strip naked and have her insert a marker and a Barbie dolls broken leg intoher vagina. (v) 12th charge (s 342) - tying up and thereby wrongfully confining the Victim. Separate Charges: Ong Li Xia (i) 14th charge (s 326) - pouring hot water, i.e. a heated substance on the body of the Victim and thereby causing grievous hurt to her. (ii) 15th charge (s 342) - tying the Victim up with raffia and thereby wrongfully confining her. (i) 4th charge (s 506) - criminal intimidation by threatening the Victim with a stick. (ii) 11th charge (s 326) - pouring hot water i.e. a heated substance on the Victims body thereby causing grievous hurt. 2.1 In addition, each accused person, consented to a number of other charges being taken into consideration. Both Accused consented to have the joint 7th Charge (rioting under s 147) and the joint 8th Charge (grievous hurt under s 326) taken into consideration.
Ong Li Xia was about 14 years at the time of the offences and Yeo Kim Han had attained the age of 17. The offences were committed between 15th December 1999 to 2nd January 2000 in an apartment where Ong Li Xia lived with 3 of her sisters and their mother. Her father was serving sentence at the time of the offences for a drug offence. The mother works in a karaoke lounge. 3.1 The Victim was confined to the flat in which Ong Li Xia lived with her sisters between 15th December 1999 to 2nd January 2000. All the offences were committed in the flat. The flat was visited by Yeo Kim Han whose girlfriend was one of the sisters of Ong Li Xia. 3.2 Some of the offences to which the two Accused have pleaded guilty, were committed together with others i.e. the sisters of Ong Li Xia and one Neo Soo Kai and one Melvin Yeo Yew Beng aged 17 years who also visited the flat. These individuals pleaded guilty in the Subordinate Courts and have been sentenced recently.
In essence, the Prosecutions Statement of Facts shows that the Victim was initially physically assaulted with fists and instruments. Thereafter, over time, she was asked to perform acts, which will fill anyone who approaches the case, with great revulsion. At her tender age she was forced under threats to put objects into her private part and forced on another occasion, to perform oral sex with a dog in effect an act of bestility, if I might say, which greatly demeaned her sexually. In that incident, Ong Li Xia and Yeo Kim Han both told the Victim to suck the penis of the dog and Ong Li Xia carried the dog towards the Victims face. Yeo Kim Han threatened to beat the Victim with a stick if she did not do so. On other days, hot water taken from a kettle was poured on her during her captivity several times over the two weeks to her screams. She suffered from third degree burns on her neck and chest and trunk and on her upper and lower limb as the medical report shows. The photographic evidence shows extensive keloid formations over the burnt areas. The acts showed an inclination on the part of both Accused to be sadistic i.e. practising on the young Victim sexual perversion marked by a love for cruelty and also of deriving pleasure from inflicting or watching cruelty over the period of two weeks. 4.1 The Victim has in her Victim Impact Statement stated poignantly that the incidents have left on her horrendous scars as a result of the scalding with hot water, have hurt her and continue to hurt her greatly and have changed her life drastically for the worse and particularly that with her said scars, no boy will even be attracted to her. The photographic evidence of the scars confirms the anguish which she has, no doubt, experienced. Both Accused have also put the Victims family out of pocket with a large medical bill. More pain and expense will follow if she is able to undergo plastic surgery to correct the scars. Some residual scarring will though remain in the end. Ong Li Xia Judicial Commissioner