 The accused was tried and convicted on the following charge: “That you, Raman Selvam s/o Renganathan. together with one Dhanabalan s/o A Gopalkrishnan, on the 24 th day of February 2003, at about 8.35 pm, at Block 52 Teban Gardens Road #13-588, Singapore, in furtherance of the common intention of you both, did traffic in a controlled drug specified in Class A of the First Schedule to the Misuse of Drugs Act, Chapter 185, to wit, by having in your possession for the purpose of trafficking, 27 blocks of vegetable matter, 1 packet of vegetable matter and some loose vegetable matter, containing not less than 2715.6 grams of cannabis, without any authorisation under the Act or the Regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed an offence under section 5(1)(a) read with section 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act, Chapter 185 and section 34 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224 and punishable under section 33 of the Misuse of Drugs Act.”
 At around noon on 24 February 2003, a team of Central Narcotics Bureau (‘CNB’) officers was briefed by ASP Nigel Sim about two suspected male Indian cannabis traffickers, the accused and Dhanabalan (also known as Balu). The accused was operating a flower shop at Block 61 Teban Gardens Road while Balu was running a food stall in a coffee shop at Block 54 Teban Gardens Road. They were believed to have a large quantity of cannabis stored in one of the flats in Blocks 52, 53 or 54 (all blocks named are in the Teban Gardens Road housing estate unless otherwise stated). Photographs of the said male Indians were shown to the officers.
 The team arrived in the vicinity of Block 52 at about 12.45 pm and kept observation there until about 5.35 pm when some of them were instructed to proceed to Block 24 (where the accused was residing) to arrest the accused. At the void deck of Block 24, they arrested two male Indians who were behaving suspiciously. These two suspects were later escorted to Clementi Police Division HQ.
 In the meantime, another male Indian resembling the accused had disappeared from the scene and was believed to be hiding in #06-164 of Block 24 (the accused’s flat). The CNB officers knocked on the main door of that unit and identified themselves but there was no response from within the flat. Several of the officers then left for the flower shop at Block 61 to ask the accused’s wife, Vasuagee d/o Subramaniam, to help them gain access into the flat
 At about 6.35 pm, they returned to the accused’s flat with Vasuagee and tried to use her keys to open the main door. Although the keys worked, the door would not open as it was latched from within. The door was then kicked open. The CNB officers entered the flat and arrested the accused in the master bedroom after a struggle. His young son was also in the master bedroom. A search was then conducted and one Dunhill cigarette box containing two rolled-up papers of vegetable matter was found on top of the basin in the toilet located in the kitchen. Later that night, the accused was escorted to Block 52.
 On the same day, another team of officers was briefed by Insp William Tan about the accused and Balu. This team arrived at the Teban Gardens Road housing estate in the late afternoon and arrested Balu at the coffee shop in Block 54 at about 6 pm. Two male Indians working at Balu’s food stall were also arrested with him. A bunch of 4 keys was found in the trousers pocket of Balu. 7. Some of the CNB officers escorted Balu to the thirteenth floor of Block 53 intending to make enquiries at one of the flats in that block but no one was in that flat at that time. At around 6.50 pm, Balu was brought to the void deck of Block 52 where they met ASP Krishnan and ASP Nigel Sim. The two senior officers questioned Balu.