Arshad bin Awang (“Arshad”) died on 26 May 2001 at Changi General Hospital at age 75. He had been admitted to the Hospital on 6 December 2000. The cause of death was cardio-respiratory failure. Arshad died intestate.
The beneficiaries of his Estate as certified by the Syariah Court were: (a) Zabariah, daughter from first marriage 16 shares. (b) Zalina, daughter from first marriage 16 shares. (c) Zalipah, daughter from first marriage 16 shares. (d) Salleh, his sole surviving brother 15 shares. (e) Kapti, his widow 9 shares.
Zakiah was not a blood relative of Arshad. Arshad’s mother – the late Mdm Mahara bte Hadje Arshad – had, when Zakiah was very young, taken Zakiah into the family and brought her up. Arshad, who was then in his early twenties and living with his mother, had adopted Zakiah. Zakiah’s evidence that she treated Arshad as her adoptive father and that he treated her as his adoptive daughter was not disputed.
Mr Noor Marican, who appeared for Zakiah, conceded that as the funds in the accounts came from Arshad there was a presumption of a resultant trust in favour of Arshad. He submitted, however, that there was, in this case, a preponderance of evidence that showed that Arshad intended to gift the moneys in the accounts to Zakiah and that, in any event, since Arshad was in loco parentis with Zakiah, a presumption of advancement arose in favour of Zakiah.
Arshad in the later stages of his life needed the assistance of someone to help manage his moneys. In particular, he needed someone to periodically withdraw moneys so that he could meet his medical and other expenses. Towards this end, he had – in March 1994 – opened a joint Savings Account with his daughter Zalipah (one of the plaintiffs herein) but because of some misunderstanding with Zalipah, he had closed that account. Thereafter Arshad had maintained an account in his sole name for some months before closing that account and opening instead the joint accounts with Zakiah that are the subject matter of these proceedings.
I am satisfied that in opening the joint accounts with Zakiah, Arshad was not making a gift of the moneys in those accounts to Zakiah. I am also satisfied that any presumption of advancement in favour of Zakiah by virtue of the fact that she was his adopted daughter was negated by the fact, as I find it to be, that Arshad had opened and maintained the accounts jointly with Zakiah only for his personal convenience in having someone make withdrawals on his behalf from these accounts. Zakiah was therefore not beneficially entitled to the moneys in the joint accounts and will have to account to the Estate of Arshad for those moneys.
Accordingly, I grant the following orders: