Econ Corporation Limited (the Company) is a public company. It was incorporated on 1 April 1975 under its original name Econ Piling Pte Ltd and changed to its present name on 25 September 2000, when it converted to a public company limited by shares.
The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of a public company listed on the main board of the Stock Exchange of Singapore Limited (SGX), namely Econ International Limited (EIL). EIL owns more than 40 associates and or subsidiaries. The parent company and its numerous subsidiaries and associates are commonly referred to as the Econ group. The principal business of the Company is that of general contracting; it spearheads the engineering and construction arm within the Econ group and accounts for 87% of the group's turnover.
 The Company holds an unlimited class A1 licence for both general building and civil engineering as well as an unlimited L6 licence for piling, awarded by the Building and Construction Authority of the Ministry of National Development. Over the years, the Company has undertaken numerous projects in the public and private sectors including water reclamation works and MRT (mass transit railway) lines for government bodies and other employers. As at November 2002, the Company was ranked the second largest local contractor. The Company's current directors are Chew Tiong Kheng, Joseph Sin and Geoffrey Yeoh Seng Huat. These three (3) persons also hold directorships in EIL (together with Heng Chiang Meng and Michael Hwang) as well as in other companies within the Econ group. According to information disclosed in the Explanatory Statement which accompanied the scheme of arrangement documents presented to the Company's creditors on 27 May 2003, the chairman holds 38,597,000 shares or 6.96% in EIL. He is also a creditor of the Company for the sum of $314,000. Joseph Sin and Geoffrey Yeoh are also shareholders of EIL albeit holding considerably less shares (0.09% and 0.19% respectively) than the chairman.
The 1997 Asian financial and economic crisis had a severely adverse effect on the construction industry in Singapore as a whole, and on the Company in particular. The Company incurred significant losses on its projects in India and it faced cash flow problems in Singapore which were exacerbated by losses accumulated over the years, resulting in the Company's liabilities ($228m) exceeding its assets. Currently, the Company is facing demands from its trade and other creditors (such as banks) which it is unable to meet. I should add that EIL is in the same predicament. Proceedings have been commenced against the Company in the Subordinate Court and High Court by various creditors, arising out of its inability to meet its outstanding obligations.
On 9 April 2003, the Company held an emergency meeting with its bankers and other financial institutions, to discuss options to ensure the continued financial viability of the Company and the Econ group. Its main bank creditors unanimously agreed that the Company should seek protection from its creditors, to ensure that its efforts to restructure its debts would not be thwarted.
At a subsequent meeting held on 10 April 2003 with members of the informal steering committee that had been established (from amongst its principal creditors) to represent the Company's creditor banks/financial institutions, those present agreed on the salient features that should be incorporated in the proposed restructuring scheme for the Company's debts.
The Company applied to court on 25 April 2003 for leave to present a scheme of arrangement of debts, under s 210(10) of the Companies Act Cap 50 (the Act). Rubin J refused to grant the application as he was of the view that the Company had not set out any details of the scheme it intended to propose to creditors. However, the Company was granted leave to make a further application.
Subsequently, with the assistance of KPMG Business Advisory Pte Ltd (KPMG), the Company drew up a preliminary scheme to be proposed to its creditors as follows:- (i) payment of cash of $5,000 to each creditor or 3% of an approved claim whichever is higher; (ii) issuance of 7 year redeemable loan stock up to 25% of the approved claim of each participating creditor; (iii) issue of EIL shares up to 72% of the approved claim of each participating creditor, subject to the approval of the relevant authorities.  (Hereinafter the above scheme will be referred to as "the original scheme").
On 2 May 2003, the Company applied to court for leave to convene a meeting for the creditors to consider and if deemed fit, to approve the original scheme. Kan J granted the Company leave on 7 May 2003 to convene a meeting pursuant to s 210(10) of the Act, which he directed must be held on or before 18 June 2003; he further granted a stay of all proceedings against the Company.
On 27 May 2003, the Company tendered a formal scheme of arrangement to its unsecured creditors (with an Explanatory Statement) in which some changes were made to the original scheme; participating creditors would now receive the following:- (i) cash of $4,000 or 3% of the participating creditor's approved claim whichever is the higher, with payment being stretched over 24 months from the effective date of sanction by the court; (ii) redeemable stock comprising 15% of their approved claim within 3 months from the effective date, to be redeemed at the end of 3 years; (iii) EIL shares at $0.09¢ per share up to 47% of the approved claim amount within 12 months from the effective date. (Hereinafter the above scheme will be referred to as "the revised scheme").
The Company filed notice of a meeting on 17 May 2003 and on 17 June 2003 it convened a meeting (the meeting) of its unsecured creditors, to consider the revised scheme. Of the 967 creditors who were present at the meeting, 858 voted in favour and 96 voted against, the revised scheme. The value of the admitted claims of those who voted in favour was $176,902,724.87 or 89%. I should point out that the actual scheme approved by the Company's supporting creditors departed somewhat from the revised scheme. The terms of the approved scheme read as follows:- (i) creditors whose claims were less than or equal to $4,000 would be paid in full within 12 months whereas other creditors would be paid the equivalent of 3% of their claims within 24 months; (ii) loan stocks redeemable in 3 years amounting to 15% of the participating creditors' claims will be issued within 3 months after the scheme is sanctioned by the court. However, if the cash flow does not allow for redemption of loan stocks, the shortfall will be met by the issuance of EIL shares; (iii) creditors will be issued with EIL shares (within 12 months of the scheme becoming effective) amounting to 47% of their claims at a value of S$0.09¢ per share (after a share value reduction exercise to bring EIL's share value to S$0.01¢ per share) in consideration for which the participating creditors would irrevocably and absolutely assign their rights in respect of 82% of their claims to EIL. The shares issued would be subject to a moratorium on trading over a staggered period (up to 12 months). (Hereinafter the above scheme shall be referred to as the "approved scheme", the full details [together with the minutes of the meeting] are to be found in the 2 nd and 3 rd affidavits filed by Geoffrey Yeoh on 26 June and 15 July, 2003 respectively).
As the percentage (89%) of approving creditors far exceeded the 75% requirement under s 210(3) of the Act, the Company applied to court by way of summons in chambers 3935 of 2003 (the application) on 26 June 2003 for inter alia, sanction of the scheme. After one adjournment (which I granted at the Company's request to enable it to file a reply to opposing creditors' affidavits), the application came on for hearing again before me. Lengthy arguments were canvassed by the Company as to why the application should be granted and, by opposing creditors as to why it should not. The Company inter alia, accused the opposing creditors of being 'sour grapes' and having hidden agendas whilst the opposing creditors alleged that the Company's conduct as well as the approved scheme, lacked bona fides and transparency and, certain creditors who attended the meeting should have been separately classed from other unsecured creditors. Suffice it to say, it was one of the most hotly contested applications of this nature that has come before this or any, court. I should also mention that after the meeting, five creditors (3 of whom were represented by Wong Partnership) who had supported the approved scheme changed their minds. These were: Goldbell Engineering Pte Ltd, Goldbell Leasing Pte Ltd, Chua Chuan Leong & Sons Pte Ltd, Degussa Pte Ltd and W.R. Grace Singapore Pte Ltd. Conversely, six (6) creditors who had initially opposed the scheme changed their minds after the meeting and decided to support the same; they were Allington Engineering & Trading Pte Ltd, C & P Marine Pte Ltd, Jack Huat Engineering & Construction Pte Ltd, Lim Kim Huat Building Construction Pte Ltd, MKH Building Construction Pte Ltd and Plus Link Environmental Pte Ltd.
The Company through its executive director Geoffrey Yeoh (Yeoh) filed seven (7) affidavits. Some of his affidavits were filed in support of the application while others were a response to affidavits filed by opposing creditors. I should point out that Yeoh's 5 th affidavit was filed after the adjourned hearing with a direction by me that it should address the opposing creditors' complaint that there had been a lack of information specifically on three (3) issues, which formed the main bone of contention between the parties:- (i) the losses incurred by EIL; (ii) the transfer of the Company's machinery to Tat Hong Heavy Equipment Pte Ltd (Tat Hong); (iii) the transfer of the Company's machinery to any other creditors/third parties since 1 January 2003. 
The opposing creditors (in particular Supermix Concrete Pte Ltd (Supermix) and Jurong Readymix Concrete Pte Ltd [Jurong]) complained that at the meeting, the management deliberately withheld information on EIL's losses from the attendees. Had the creditors known of the whopping losses, those who voted for may well have voted against, the approved scheme. Yeoh however denied there had been non-disclosure. He pointed out that in his first affidavit (filed on 2 May 2003), he had exhibited (in GYSH-6) the accounts of the Econ group (which would include the Company's) as part of the Annual Report of EIL for 2001-2002. Further, in his 4 th affidavit (filed on 24 July 2003) he had exhibited (in GYSH-7 ) the financial statements dated 28 June 2002 of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2002; the Company's profit and loss statement showed losses of $7,924,603 as against $1,067,309 for 2001.
The opposing creditors had referred to press reports by EIL giving profit warnings: in the Business Times of Friday 27 December 2002 (where the Econ group said its losses had increased to $32m from $6m in the previous year with EIL's share being $19.6m [after losses of $50.7m from the previous year]) and, in the Straits Times of 1 July 2003 where it was reported that EIL's losses had risen 985% from $12.8m to $138.9m since its last financial year. At the meeting itself, the creditors were informed that the Company's losses approximated $123m for the year ended 31 March 2003. In fact, when EIL's full year financial results were released on 30 June 2003 (see GYSH-2 in Yeoh's 5 th affidavit), the losses had ballooned to $138m. Since the Company is the main operating arm of the Econ group, the losses of EIL were largely attributable to the Company's operations since EIL does not hold any construction licence or undertake any construction projects itself. Yeoh explained that contrary to the creditors' allegation, the full year's accounts of EIL were not withheld. They had to be and were, reviewed by the auditors on Friday 27 June 2003 before release. As such, the accounts could not be presented at the meeting held ten (10) days earlier. On the next business day after 27 June 2003, namely on Monday 30 June 2003, EIL's financial statements were released to the public.
At the meeting, the Company had confirmed to the attendees that there had been no sale of equipment to Tat Hong. After the meeting, the solicitors for Supermix wrote to the Company's solicitors to inquire if there had been any sales to Tat Hong since 30 October 2002. In their solicitors' reply dated 30 June 2003 the Company revealed it had entered into three (3) sale and purchase agreements with Tat Hong, dated 8 August 2002, 20 May 2003 and 31 May 2003 respectively.
Yeoh explained that the August 2002 sale was prompted by the Company's need for funding of ongoing projects. In order to generate cash, the Company sold 18 units of crawler cranes to Tat Hong for $3.48m which payment was received from Tat Hong by 10 October 2002. The Company also sold another 10 units of used cranes to Tat Hong and then leased them back from Tat Hong Plant Leasing Pte Ltd (THPL) by five (5) agreements, the earliest being dated 16 August 2002 and the latest being dated 1 May 2003.
A director of Tat Hong namely Ng Sun Ho (Ng) filed an affidavit after the adjourned hearing, to answer allegations contained in an affidavit filed by a director of Supermix, Goh Siew Huat (Goh). Tat Hong had supported the approved scheme at the meeting. Ng explained that for the sale and purchase agreement dated 8 August 2002, Tat Hong had granted the Company buy-back options for all the machinery sold thereunder. However, the options lapsed by reason of the Company's default in paying rental under the `lease agreements. Consequently, Tat Hong terminated the leases. The parties then entered into a fresh lease agreement dated 1 May 2003.
Ng revealed that full payment was made by Tat Hong to the Company, save that a set-off was effected for current and future rentals due to THPL under the lease agreements, as well as for the ancillary costs of repair for the machinery sold by the Company to Tat Hong, under the agreements dated 20 May and 31 May, 2003. Ng deposed that no set-off was made for rental which had accrued prior to May 2003. Ng denied the opposing creditors' allegation that Tat Hong had bought the machines from the Company at an undervalue.
In his 5 th affidavit, Yeoh revealed that an arrangement similar to THPL's was entered into with the Company's main earthworks contractor Kok Tong Construction Pte Ltd (Kok Tong). Nine (9) units of used equipment were sold to Kok Tong on 1 April 2003 for $1,019,200 but the payment was set-off against amounts owed to Kok Tong who had threatened to stop work on the Company's ongoing projects otherwise.
Besides Kok Tong, the Company sold equipment/machinery to other third parties which details were furnished (see GYSH-20 ) in Yeoh's 5 th affidavit. As with THPL and Kok Tong, Yeoh revealed that the company did not receive payment from some of the buyers as the sale proceeds were set-off against amounts owed to these buyers; otherwise they had threatened to stop work on or cease supplying materials to the Company for, ongoing projects. One such purchaser wasTiong Woon Crane & Transport Pte Ltd (Tiong Woon) who bought a crawler crane for $46,800/- on 15 January 2003. Counsel (Winston Kwek) for Supermix informed the court that in the course of discovery (from the Company/its solicitors) after the meeting, his colleague found that the Company's original invoice no. 02/02093 for this sale differed materially from the copy exhibited in Yeoh's 5 th affidavit. The exhibited copy (at p 324) contained the following handwritten words:- (1) Contra AP invoices -- $24,417.50  (2) Contra amt due from EIPL to Tiong Woon -- $22,382.50 (1) S$30,000 to offset against payment due Tiong Woon  (2) Balanced to issue cheque to Econ Corporation Limited soonest. 
Although the Company had intended to use the net sale proceeds of $1.8m received from Tat Hong as cash distribution to its creditors under the approved scheme, it could not as the monies were urgently required for funding current projects. Yeoh deposed that the receipt and disbursement of funds from Tat Hong were monitored by KPMG (the Company's business advisor and proposed scheme administrator), to ensure that no preferential payment was made to any unsecured creditor whose debt ought to be covered by the approved scheme.
Counsel urged the court not to follow the decision in Wah Yuen Electrical Engineering Pte Ltd v Singapore Cables Manufacturers Pte Ltd[2003] SGCA 23 , relied on heavily by the opposing creditors; the Company set out in a schedule attached to its Reply Submissions the differences (12) between the facts here and in Wah Yuen's case. Equally, Re Halley's Departmental Store Pte Ltd[1996] 2 SLR 70 did not apply. The Court was reminded that an overwhelming majority (in value) of unsecured creditors had voted in favour of the approved scheme. Counsel alleged that the opposing creditors (in particular Supermix and Jurong) were driven by collateral motives, which is elaborated on below.
Supermix had obtained judgment against the Company on 3 April 2002 (in Suit No. 1510 of 2002) for $1,500,439.37. On 4 April 2003, Supermix through their solicitors served a statutory demand on the Company under s 254 of the Act. On 24 April 2003, Supermix took out garnishee proceedings against the Housing Development Board, Public Utilities Board (PUB) and Land Transport Authority for their judgment debt. The garnishee order nisi against PUB was made absolute on 6 May 2003. In Yeoh's 6 th affidavit, he charged that Supermix made the nisi order absolute without informing the court that the Company had an application under s 210 of the Act (coupled with a stay of all proceedings) fixed for hearing on 7 May 2003, which application had been served on them on 5 May 2003. Instead, Supermix surreptitiously applied ex-parte to the Assistant Registrar on 6 May 2003, to move forward the hearing date for PUB to Show Cause from 9 to 6 May 2003; they applied to make the order nisi absolute that day itself.
The Company's application to set aside the Garnishee Order Absolute was dismissed on 23 May 2003. On appeal to a judge in chambers, the Company's appeal was allowed by Lai Kew Chai J on 8 July 2003 and the Garnishee Order Absolute was set aside. At a further hearing on 21 July 2003 granted at Supermix's request, Lai J rescinded his earlier orders and allowed the Garnishee Order Absolute to stand on condition Supermix furnished a banker's guarantee to the Company for the sum of $1.505m garnished from PUB. As at 21 August 2003, Supermix had failed to furnish the security ordered by Lai J. Supermix stood to gain if the approved scheme was scuttled -- they would be able to keep the garnished amount, which would otherwise be paid to creditors, under the cash distribution portion of the approved scheme. Hence, their opposition to the application. The court was told that Supermix adopted inconsistent stands. In relation to hearings to set aside the Garnishee Order Absolute, it argued that the Company was not insolvent. It canvassed the opposite argument for the application and contended that the Company should be wound up instead. I should mention that Supermix has a pending claim against the Company in Suit No. 1464 of 2002, for damages for breach of contract, which Supermix has estimated to be in the region of $5m.
Notwithstanding their objections to the scheme of arrangement, counsel pointed out that representatives (their finance manager and solicitor) of Supermix asked no questions at the meeting. It was after the meeting that their solicitors raised several queries in their correspondence with the Company's solicitors. 
The Company informed the court that four (4) named creditors (including Jurong) and 'other unsecured creditors' placed an advertisement in the Straits Times of 21 May 2003 inviting creditors to attend a meeting on 23 May 2003 to consider the proposed scheme of the Company. The Company was told by some friendly attendees that the 23 May meeting was to orchestrate opposition to the company's proposed scheme. The Company's request for the identities of the other unsecured creditors involved was not answered by the opposing creditors who were also silent as to what transpired at the meeting. Relying on the following passage from the New Zealand Court of Appeal's decision in Commissioner of Inland Revenue v Chester Trustee Services Ltd[2003] 1 NZLR 395 (at para 58):  …The wishes of creditors will be given weight only if they have reasons which relate to their position as creditors, and are not motivated by collateral purposes. 
The Company submitted that the criteria to be satisfied before a court sanctions a scheme of arrangement is that laid down in the following passage from Buckley on the Companies Act (11 ed vol. 1 at pp 473-474):- In exercising its powers of sanction the court will see, first, that the provisions of the statute have been complied with, second, that the class was fairly represented by those who attended the meeting and that the statutory majority are acting bona fide and are not coercing the minority in order to promote interests adverse to those of the class whom they purport to represent, and thirdly, that the arrangement is such as an intelligent and honest man, a member of the class concerned and acting in respect of his interest, might reasonably approve. The court does not sit merely to see that the majority are acting bona fide and thereupon to register the decision of the meeting, but, at the same time, the court will be slow to differ from the meeting, unless either the class has not been properly consulted, or the meeting has not considered the matter with a view to the interests of the class which it is empowered to bind, or some blot is found in the scheme.
On 4 June 2003,the Company had met certain creditors (including Jurong and United Central Engineering Pte Ltd) to answer queries they had raised. Further, the Company also held one-to-one dialogue sessions with creditors when asked and where the need arose.
The third test propounded in Buckley's namely whether 'the arrangement contemplated is a reasonable arrangement such as that which a man of business would reasonably approve' (see Re English, Scottish and Australian Chartered Bank (1893) 3 Ch 385) was also satisfied. In Re Alabama, New Orleans, Texas & Pacific JunctionRailway Company (1891) 1 Ch 213, the Court of Appeal held (on a petition presented under s 2 of The Joint Stock Companies Arrangement Act 1870):- In exercising the power of sanctioning a scheme of arrangement conferred on it by the Act, the Court will not only ascertain that all the statutory conditions have been complied with, but will also consider whether the class of creditors summoned to the meeting was fairly represented by those who attended, and whether the statutory majority who approved of the scheme were acting bona fide or were seeking to promote interests adverse to those of the class whom they professed to represent, and generally whether the arrangement is such as a man of business would reasonably approve. 
Whether a scheme is reasonable is a question of degree which is determined by reference to other alternatives. If the application was not granted, the only other alternative would be a compulsory liquidation of the Company in which scenario creditors would obtain a return of 3% instead of what they would receive (65% return) under the approved scheme. Moreover, under the approved scheme, the debts owed by the Company to its related companies (as well as to the chairman) would be subordinated; this would not be the case if the Company was wound up, as all unsecured creditors would rank pari passu.
It is not a valid argument against sanction by the court, that the approved scheme differed from the revised scheme, taking the cue from Re Ferro Constructions Pty Ltd 2 ACLR 18 where, the Australian court approved a scheme of arrangement even though there were differences between the scheme approved at the meeting and the scheme as originally considered by the court, when it was asked to authorise the meeting of creditors being called.
The Company submitted that the proper test on classification of creditors is that formulated by Bowen LJ in Sovereign Life Assurance Co v Dodd[1892] 2 QB 573 where, in relation to s 2 of the Joint Stock Companies Arrangement Act 1870 he said (at p 583): The word "class" is vague, and to find out what is meant by it we must look at the scope of the section, which is a section enabling the Court to order a meeting of a class of creditors to be called. It seems plain that we must give such a meaning to the term "class" as will prevent the section being so worked as to result in confiscation and injustice, and that it must be confined to those persons whose rights are not dissimilar as to make it impossible for them to consult together with a view to their common interest (emphasis added).
Further support for the above proposition was to be found in the Hong Kong case of Re Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd[1991] 2 HKC 364 where, in considering and granting a petition for approval of a scheme of arrangement under s 166 of the territory's Companies Ordinance Cap 32 (equivalent to our s 210), Nazareth J overruled the objections of a minority shareholder in the subject company and held: It is the different rights of shareholders and creditors, rather than their interests, that determines whether or not they constitute different classes. The meaning of a class of members in s 166 is confined to those persons whose rights are not so dissimilar as to make it impossible for them to consult together with a view to their common interest; in other words, it was to be determined by dissimilarity of rights, not dissimilarity of interests.
The Company pointed out that its contingent creditors are essentially issuers of performance bonds for its on-going projects. Citing Re Hawk Insurance Co Ltd[2001] 2 BCLC 480 , counsel submitted that, unsecured creditors whose liabilities are contingent, does not in itself mean that they must necessarily be classified differently from other unsecured creditors; it depends on whether the contingent creditors have different rights under the scheme. In Re Butterworth Products & Industries Sdn Bhd[1992] 1 MLJ 429 , the Malaysian High Court held that a contingent creditor was no different from judgment creditors, as their respective rights under s 176 (equivalent to our s 210) of the Malaysian Companies Act 1965 were not dissimilar.
Consequently, the objections of Supermix, that the Company's contingent creditors are interested in the continued existence (as opposed to liquidation) of the Company cannot be a valid ground to constitute the contingent creditors a different class. The fact that an overwhelming majority of creditors voted for the scheme is also evidence that they were interested in preserving the Company, not in its liquidation. 
The Company argued that the second contention of Supermix, that the inter-company creditors should be separately classed is also not sustainable, relying on the decision of the Hong Kong appellate court in UDL Argos Engineering & Heavy Industries Co Ltd[2001] 1184 HKCU 1 . The same submission was made by the Company (citing Re BTR plc[2000] 1 BCLC 740 ) in relation to the other argument put forward by Supermix -- that creditors for claims of less than $4,000 should be separately classed on the basis they would obtain full recovery of their debts. Accepting Supermix's argument would mean that there would be many different classes of creditors, given that creditors whose claims exceed $4,000 have varying rates of recovery.
The Company submitted that even if the contentions of Supermix were accepted by the court, the fact remained that the scheme still had the approval of the requisite majority of creditors under s 210 of the Act. Counsel suggested that the court take the "discount" approach adopted in Re Jax Marine Pty Ltd[1967] 1 NSWLR 145 , which was reiterated in UDL Argos Engineering & Heavy Industries Co Ltd. Adopting the "discount" approach, the court could adjust the votes to take into account those creditors who had changed their minds after the meeting. In that regard, the value of the claims of 6 creditors who had decided to support the scheme were about $1.9m as against less than $35,000 for the claims of 5 creditors who had decided to oppose the scheme, after the meeting. Even if the court were to disregard the claims of contingent creditors, the votes of the remaining creditors who supported the approved scheme would still exceed 75%. In Yeoh's 5 th affidavit (see exhibit GYSH-22 ), the Company set out various scenarios in which certain categories of creditors were excluded from voting on the revised scheme. One such scenario (schedule F) showed the exclusion of: (i) creditors owed less than $4,000; (ii) contingent creditors except those whose liabilities had crystallised; (iii) inter-company debts and (iv) HSBC's claim of $1.5m. The votes in favour of the revised scheme still exceeded 75%. I should add that Wong Partnership put forward their own scenarios (6) which showed that had the creditors been classified in accordance with their submissions, the percentages of votes in favour of the approved scheme ranged from 70% to 78%.
The Company argued that the complaint of non-disclosure was unfounded. In any event, the test is not transparency but whether the creditors had sufficient information on which to make an informed decision. Moreover, there was factually no non-disclosure. The timing of the release of information pertaining to EIL's losses had been adequately explained in Yeoh's 5 th affidavit. In any case, the information when released did not have a material impact on the price of EIL's shares, which hovered around $0.03¢ to $0.04¢, before and after, the meeting, whereas under the approved scheme the share price was fixed at $0.09¢.
The impugned transactions with the Tat Hong group of companies were not preferential in nature but necessitated by the Company's financial position. Besides THPL, Sprayed Concrete Services Pte Ltd (Sprayed Concrete) as well as Jurong had received payments on outstanding invoices before the meeting; Sprayed Concrete had threatened to stop work on its tunnelling sub-contract otherwise. The payments to Sprayed Concrete were raised and addressed, at the meeting. Despite the payments, Sprayed Concrete opposed the scheme of arrangement. If Supermix did not object to the payments made to Jurong, then it cannot contend that similar payments made to other creditors were preferential in nature. In any case, such payments were closely monitored by KPMG since April 2003; there has been no suggestion of bad faith or incompetence on their part.
The allegation of Supermix, that Tat Hong changed its mind on opposing the scheme of arrangement by reason of the Company's payments, was incorrect. The first two (2) sale and purchase agreements with Tat Hong were dated 8 August 2002 and 20 May 2003, which dates were before the creditors met amongst themselves and before the meeting. It did not make sense for Tat Hong to have had a change of heart between 23 May and 17 June, 2003; they had consistently supported the Company's scheme of arrangement.
Counsel defended the Company's attempts to persuade opposing creditors (such as Thyssen Hunnebeck Singapore Pte Ltd) to change their votes, after the first adjourned hearing of the application. He saw nothing wrong in the Company's making efforts to garner support for the approved scheme. It should be contrasted with the dissentients' efforts to gather support to oppose the scheme of arrangement, by calling a meeting of creditors on 23 May 2003, and refusing to disclose what transpired thereat.
Even if the impugned transactions were considered dubious, the Company urged the Court to focus on the benefits of the approved scheme. If the application is not granted, there would not be a viable alternative to enable the Company to continue as an on-going concern. There would be no legitimate advantage for the creditors should the Company be wound up instead.
There is no doubt that Supermix would stand to gain (to the tune of $1.505m) should the application be refused. I had told their counsel therefore that it would be difficult for me to believe/accept that Supermix (apart from their own interests) had altruistic motives in opposing the application. However, that does not mean that I should totally disregard/reject the arguments they canvassed.
I start by referring to the arguments put forth by the opposing creditors (9) represented by Wong Partnership. As some of their objections to the approved scheme have been dealt with earlier in the Company's submissions, I will only focus on those arguments not referred to previously.
Counsel made much of the fact (as did counsel for Supermix) that the Company had refused to give discovery/full discovery in response to Jurong's letters and the letters of Rajah & Tann, written before and after the meeting. As I am of the view that letters post the meeting are academic on the issue of informed consent, I will turn my attention to Jurong's letters written before the meeting. The writer of both letters was Jurong's director Lena Tan, who subsequently filed an affidavit to confirm that certain creditors had changed their minds about supporting the approved scheme.
In their letter dated 6 June 2003, Jurong questioned the Company on the profit-sharing arrangements regarding its joint venture projects with Lum Chang Building Contractors Pte Ltd (Lum Chang) and NCC International AB. Jurong queried the Company on contingent liabilities of $121m due on performance bonds. Jurong wanted to know to what extent novation of the joint venture contract to Lum Chang (in return for 10% management profit to the Company from the project and in exchange for full funding by Lum Chang), would affect the provisions for contingent liabilities. Questions were also asked about the Company's trade debts ($17.5m), remaining jobs on its order books and why all creditors were classified together. Jurong further expressed unhappiness over the 'haircut' creditors were being asked to accept in exchange for shares in EIL, not to mention the unattractive pricing of the shares to be issued; Jurong complained that the pricing seemed to suggest that the Company was putting the interests of shareholders of EIL ahead of those of its creditors.
Jurong's second letter to the Company dated 13 June 2003 was sent after the Company had met with its representatives on 6 June 2003. I note from this second letter that the Company did answer Jurong's queries but Jurong wanted more information arising from the Company's answers. Jurong also asked for confirmation that since 7 May 2003, the Company had not paid any unsecured creditor on their claims. I note from the minutes of the meeting (GYSH-6 of Yeoh's 2 nd affidavit) that Yeoh answered Jurong's new query as follows:- I forgot to mention one thing. There was a letter sent to us. There was a question of whether the directors have made special payments to any "unsecured creditor" after the filing date. To our knowledge, no preferential payments were made. We have worked with KPMG who were monitoring the payments in accordance with the scheme. We made conscious efforts to ensure that this was done.
The Company replied to Jurong on 16 June 2003 and that where it had not answered Jurong's queries, it would do so at the meeting. At Jurong's request, their letter dated 13 June 2003 as well as the Company's reply, were displayed on the notice board at the entrance to the venue for the meeting. 
At the meeting Yeoh invited questions from attendees after he had briefed creditors on the revised scheme and the reasons therefor. The question and answer session continued after lunch. The vote was taken after Yeoh and KPMG's representative had responded to queries from Jurong (Lena Tan).
Wong Partnership (Mr Yeo) pointed out that under cl 7.1 of the revised scheme, the issue of EIL shares is conditional upon EIL entering into a scheme of arrangement to be proposed. Consequently, information pertaining to EIL's financial health was highly material. Yet at the meeting, it was after voting was over that creditors were told (by KPMG) that EIL itself would require a scheme. He rejected Yeoh's excuse that the information on EIL's accounts was price-sensitive. If so, the Company should have adjourned the meeting until after the public release of EIL's accounts.
The court's attention was drawn to proceedings in Adm in Rem No. 149 of 2003 in which ASL Shipyard Pte Ltd sued inter alia, the owners (Econ Corporation International Limited [ECIL]) of the mt Keasin 41 (the vessel). Yeoh had filed an affidavit in that suit wherein he deposed that the Company is the third mortgagee of the vessel, for a loan of $12.388m extended to ECIL on the vessel and seven (7) other vessels. Yeoh's affidavit exhibited a statutory mortgage as well as a deed of covenants, both dated 9 May 2003. Counsel viewed the mortgage transaction as highly suspicious, bearing in mind that seven (7) days earlier, the Company had filed these proceedings on the basis it was insolvent. Yet, the loan cannot be traced in the Company 's financial statements for the years ending March 2002 or 2003. Further, at the meeting, the Company produced its balance sheet which showed a "nil" amount for the item "net amount due from related companies". (a) whether the admitted claims of the company's related parties should be excluded or disregarded in determining whether the statutory majority under s 210(3) of the Act has been satisfied; (b) whether the 36 creditors who stood to recover more than 15% of their claims should have been sub-divided into separate classes for voting purposes; (c) whether the company had been less than forthcoming in furnishing the information requested by Singapore Cables, and, if so, whether the court should refuse to sanction the scheme on the ground that such conduct evidenced bad faith on the part of the company in promoting the scheme; (d) whether the scheme was a fair and reasonable one; and (e) whether Re Halley's Departmental Store Pte Ltd should be followed ……..If Singapore Cables were correct, at least 12 classes of creditors would have to be given separate meetings, each of which would be attended by anything from 1 to 14 creditors. Just as the court must be careful not to empower the majority to oppress the minority by allowing the company to put everyone in the same class, it must be careful not to enable a small minority to thwart the wishes of the majority by fragmenting the creditors into small classes. (i) the current directors of the Company hold less than 8% of the shares in EIL; (ii) the Company is not a family-owned company; (iii) the executive directors are not related to one another; (iv) the related companies in the Econ group are related by reason of corporate shareholdings of EIL, not due to personal shareholdings of the directors; (v) after the approved scheme is sanctioned, the Company's creditors would become its majority shareholders through their 60% shareholding in EIL. (vi) the debts owed to related companies are equally compromised and assigned to the new shareholders of EIL; (vii) unlike the respondents Singapore Cables, Supermix stood to gain if the approved scheme was scuttled.  17 We were left unimpressed by this submission. In our opinion, it was always possible to cobble together some hypothetical scenario to show that the percentage requirements in s 210 could have been met. Those scenarios, however, were just that — hypotheticals — and they did nothing to allay the real concerns that the changes in the related party debts had provoked. 37 In any case we withheld our approval for the proposed scheme of arrangement because we found that the creditors were not in a position to assess the fairness and reasonableness of the scheme. At the appeal hearing, counsel for Wah Yuen emphasised repeatedly that KPMG had assessed the company's estimated realisable value vis-a-vis each creditor to be 15% under the scheme, as opposed to 0.4% in a liquidation scenario. In our opinion, this was an attempt to borrow the respectability of the KPMG name to clothe the figures with an aura of authority. In reality, the estimated realisable value vis-a-vis each creditor in a liquidation scenario was not reliable because it was based on unaudited information………. This meant that creditors could not determine whether the returns under the proposed scheme of arrangement were in fact greater than what they could expect in a liquidation. It may well be that a proper verification of the related party debts would reveal that the related party debts did exist to the extent currently represented. In such a scenario, the returns to the creditors in a liquidation would be larger than that currently estimated. It was also possible that Wah Yuen could have made preferential payments to its related parties. These payments could be clawed back in a liquidation and channelled to other creditors.