The parties in these proceedings are brothers, the Plaintiff being the eldest and the First Defendant being the youngest. Their father was Koh Sim, a rag-and-bone man involved in the buying and selling of second hand goods (i.e. the “karang guni” trade). The modest business grew and in 1965, the father registered it as a partnership called Sin Wah Seng (“SWS”). The first three partners were the father, the Plaintiff and the Second Defendant. The First Defendant became a partner in place of his father in 1978. When their father passed away in 1979, the First Defendant was the executor and beneficiary of the entire estate including the father’s share in SWS. As time passed, things did not go well between the Plaintiff and his two younger siblings.
In an earlier action (Originating Summons No. 1930 of 1999) commenced by the two Defendants here, an order that the partnership be dissolved and that receivers and managers be appointed over its assets and liabilities was sought. The Defendants had appointed Chio Lim and Associates, a firm of certified public accountants, to review the partnership accounts with the intention of appointing them as receivers and managers but the Plaintiff disagreed with their choice. A report entitled “Sin Wah Seng - Special Review of the Accounting Records June 1997” (“the Chio Lim Report”) had been prepared by Chio Lim and Associates. On 11 February 2000, the present Defendants served a notice of dissolution of the partnership on the Plaintiff. They then sought to amend their Originating Summons by adding a prayer for a declaration that the partnership had been dissolved on 11 February 2000. When their application came up for hearing on 13 March 2000, they withdrew it and informed the court that they would be discontinuing the Originating Summons, which they did on 6 April 2000. This was followed by the filing of the present action the next day by the Plaintiff.
This Originating Summons was commenced on 7 April 2000 seeking an order that Pricewaterhouse Coopers (“PWC”) be appointed as receivers and managers of the partnership SWS which was dissolved on 11 February 2000. On 7 June 2000, the order sought was granted by T Q Lim JC who appointed Timothy James Reid and Chan Ket Teck of PWC jointly and severally as receivers and managers of SWS to take an account of the partnership debts/liabilities at the date of its dissolution. 
In the present action, the receivers and managers, PWC, then prepared a report on 12 October 2001 (“the PWC Report”) on the status of the partnership properties. This report was not disputed by the parties. There were seven properties in issue. PWC concluded that one was a partnership asset (1 Syed Alwi Road #01-02 Siong Lim Building) and another should be shared equally by the parties outside the ambit of the partnership (27 Kang Choo Bin Road). PWC was however unable to determine the status of the other five.
On 12 March 2002, the Plaintiff applied by way of Summons in Chambers No. 600395 of 2002 under the “liberty to apply” clause in the order of 7 June 2000. In that application, he applied for an order declaring that SWS was a sole proprietorship and that he was the sole proprietor. He also asked that the Court discharge the receivers and managers, declare that he was the sole owner of three of the seven properties and that the remaining four properties were held on resulting trust by the Defendants for him and order them to transfer legal title in the properties to him. 
In his judgment of 3 May 2002, Choo Han Teck JC held that where substantial changes were intended to be made to the original or main orders, an application under a “liberty to apply” clause was not the proper procedure. The judge went on to explain why the application before him was a clear example of that. He commented that the action was taken out by the Plaintiff more than two years ago to appoint receivers and managers over an entity which the Plaintiff regarded as a partnership. After reviewing the assertions of fact made by the Plaintiff in support of his application, the judge said:
As the parties were in dispute over which of the properties were partnership properties and their respective shares therein, the Defendants took out the present application (Summons in Chambers No. 600877 of 2002) for the following orders:
On 29 July 2002, Lee Seiu Kin JC made directions as to the filing of affidavits by the parties. The judge ordered the Plaintiff to serve a copy of the Chio Lim Report on PWC so that PWC could comment on that report. He then ordered the matter to be tried.
On 3 October 2002, Timothy James Reid of PWC filed his affidavit enclosing a report of the same date (“PWC Comments”) setting out his comments on the Chio Lim Report.
At the hearing before me, the PWC Report, the Chio Lim Report (subject to what I state below) and the PWC Comments were admitted by consent. For the Chio Lim report, it was agreed that all references to an interview between the accountant and Gan Beng Tuck, the part-time bookkeeper of SWS, and the inferences drawn therefrom be deleted from the report. This was because none of the parties at the commencement of the hearing intended to call Gan as a witness and no affidavit was filed by him. I was also told that he was quite sickly. It was further agreed that the Defendants present their evidence before the Plaintiff’s as this application was taken out by them.
During the hearing, I asked the Defendants’ solicitors to prepare an aide-memoire on the seven properties in issue in order that all relevant information pertaining to them could be compendiously captured. I reproduce below the aide-memoire prepared by the Defendants’ solicitors with some additional information inserted by the Plaintiff’s solicitors: “AIDE-MEMOIRE ON PARTNERSHIP PROPERTIES 1. No. 82/82A Jalan Senang Registered in the names of Koh Sim (“KS”), Koh Yew Huat (“KYH”) and Koh Ewe Chee (“KEC”) as joint tenants Purchased on 23 October 1969 (according to title deed) According to Koh Hua Leong (“KHL”), purchase price was about $64,000 No documentary evidence on mode of payment  2. No. 12 Palm Grove Avenue Sale and Purchase Agreement executed between KEC and vendor on 6 July 1977 Registered in the names of KS, KEC and KYH as tenants in common in equal shares on 10 October 1977 According to M/s Wee Swee Teow, purchased in 1977 for $275,500 Mode of payment: i) Maybank cheque for $27,500 drawn on KEC’s personal account; ii) Maybank cheque for $80,000 drawn on KEC’s personal account; iii) Standard Chartered Bank cheque for $100,000 from unknown source; and iv) Maybank cheque for $78,120 drawn on Sin Wah Seng i.e. Business Account.  3. #01-02 Song Lin Building Registered in the names of KEC, KYH and KHL as joint tenants on 1 June 1984 According to M/s Wee Swee Teow, purchased in 1981 for $983,958 Recorded as a partnership asset Mode of payment was 10 Maybank cheques issued in favour of Industrial & Commercial Bank Limited for the account of Ko Hong Realty (Pte) Ltd. Account from which the cheques were drawn is unspecified.  4. #01-05 Song Lin Building Registered in the name of KEC on 30 September 1986 According to M/s Wee Swee Teow, purchased in 1986 for $520,000 Mode of payment: i) Maybank cheque for $52,000 ) drawn on Business Account ) charged to KEC’s current ii) Maybank cheque for $288,016 ) account with the firm.  drawn on Business Account; and ) iii) Maybank cheque for $200,000 drawn on KEC’s personal account.  5. No. 27 Kang Choo Bin Road Registered in the names of KEC, KYH and KHL as tenants in common on 15 August 1989 According to M/s Wee Swee Teow, purchased in 1989 for $400,000 Mode of payment: i) Maybank cheque for $40,000 drawn on Business Account ii) Maybank cheque for $374,035 drawn on Business Account Total purchase price was divided into three and charged to KEC, KYH and KHL’s current accounts with the Partnership  6. #01-04 Mactech Building  7. #01-12 Mactech Building Registered in KEC’s name on 10 January 1996 Option initially granted in Sin Wah Seng’s name but was subsequently transferred to KEC’s name following a letter from Sin Wah Seng According to M/s Wee Swee Teow, purchased together on or around 25 February 1991 Purchase price for #01-04 was $625,000, purchase price for #01-12 was $843,000
The Defendants (who affirmed two affidavits jointly) testified that on 28 June 2000, PWC sold the stocks and the motor vehicles of the partnership to the Plaintiff, now operating as Sin Wah Seng Trading for the amount of $320,091.04. The Defendants accepted the PWC Report’s conclusions that #01-02 Siong Lim Building was a partnership asset and that 27 Kang Choo Bin Road, although not a partnership asset, belonged to the three brothers in equal shares. More than two years had passed since the dissolution of SWS and no distribution of any of the partnership’s assets had taken place.
In the PWC Report’s Executive Summary, the following comments were made (with the Plaintiff referred to as “KEC“ and the Defendants as “KHL“ and “KYH” respectively and Siong Lim Building referred to as “Song Lin Building”): “Our conclusions reached in respect of the seven disputed properties are: 1) Only #01-02 Song Lin Building can categorically be regarded as a Partnership asset. This is evidenced by the fact that the Property was recorded as an asset in the Partnership accounts and supporting documentary records. The Partnership has paid for virtually all the Property expenses and these were recorded as partnership expenses. There is also a confirmation from M/s Wee Swee Teow & Co., the solicitors engaged in the sale and purchase of properties, that the Property was purchased by the Partnership. 2) The Partnership may have an equity interest in 12 Palm Grove as funds from the Partnership account had contributed, in part, to the purchase price of the Property and the Partnership has borne certain expenses of the Property for several years. The Property is however not recorded as a partnership asset in the available Partnership accounts. 3) No 27 Kang Choo Bin Road should not be regarded as Partnership asset. We conclude it should be regarded as an asset to be shared equally by KEC, KYH and KHL outside the partnership. This is evidenced by loans made to each partner of an equal amount by the Partnership which were used to purchase the Property. The Property is not recorded as an asset in the Partnership accounts. 4) The remaining four properties of 82/82A Jalan Senang, #01-05 Song Lin Building, #01-04 and #01-12 Mactech Building cannot categorically be regarded as Partnership assets as: a) these properties have not been recorded as assets in the available Partnership accounts and b) there is no record in the available Partnership records which shows that the Partnership paid for the Properties other than that certain property expenses were borne by the Partnership for a certain period. Except for 82/82A Jalan Senang, KEC has produced documents to substantiate his claim that he had personally paid for part of the purchase price of the other three properties. Due to: 1) insufficient conclusive evidence and information; 2) inconsistent treatment of certain property expenses in the Partnership accounts; and 3) the dispute over the share of the Partnership by KEC, KYH and KHL, we have not been able to categorically conclude whom is/are the beneficial owners(s) of the following properties: a) No 82/82A Jalan Senang b) No 12 Palm Grove Avenue c) 1 Syed Alwi Road Unit #01-05 Song Lin Building d) 2 Kallang Pudding Road Unit #01-04 Mactech Building and e) 2 Kallang Pudding Road Unit #01-12 Mactech Building.
In their second joint affidavit, the Defendants refuted some of the assertions made by the Plaintiff. On the allegation that their father was not interested in the business but only wanted to smoke opium, they said their mother told them that their father only began consuming opium as a pain-killer in the mid-1970s when he was diagnosed with liver cancer. Until then, their father was in fact heavily involved in the karang guni business. Their mother would run the shop at 15A Larut Road while their father made his rounds from dawn to dusk in the British army camps in Sembawang to buy used goods. They denied that their father ceased his involvement with the business in 1963.
In respect of the Plaintiff’s evidence that he had made money from tontines, the Defendants said it was their parents who took part in such as most of the tontine operators were good friends of their father. The Plaintiff was never involved in such activities. The Defendants did not know why their father chose the name Sin Wah Seng for the partnership but it was not because it was named after the Plaintiff, as he alleged, as he was never known by the name Wah Seng.
An account was opened with Malayan Banking Berhad for the business. Their father had a personal account with Standard Chartered Bank and he would transfer funds from his personal account into the business account whenever the need arose.
The business thrived due to their parents’ diligence. They rented a new shop at 19 Larut Road by paying $9,000 to the existing tenants to move out. Their mother did the negotiations and raised the necessary funds. Their cousin, Koh Geok Chuan, was employed to help out in the growing business. Their mother tended to the shop everyday until the time of dissolution of SWS. In 1971, their parents purchased 19 Larut Road with the funds of SWS.
In 1969, the Plaintiff got married and their father bought 82/82A Jalan Senang using SWS’s funds in order that the Plaintiff could have a home of his own. The property was registered in the joint names of their father, the Plaintiff and the Second Defendant. In 1970, their parents rented a terrace house at 56 Veerasamy Road to store their goods. As the house was big enough to accommodate the Plaintiff and his wife together with the Second Defendant, the three of them moved to Veerasamy Road so that the Jalan Senang property could be rented out. The Second Defendant moved back to Jalan Senang in 1985.
Around 1973, their father’s friend recommended 3 Jalan Kudah to him. Their father viewed the property and decided to purchase it in the joint names of himself, the Plaintiff and the Second Defendant. This was acquired by the government in 1976. The compensation amount of $133,000 was paid by three cheques of $44,000 each.
In 1977, their father decided to purchase 12 Palm Grove Avenue to replace 3 Jalan Kudah. The compensation money was to be used to finance part of this purchase. As their father was quite ill then, he allowed the Plaintiff to handle the transaction. The cheques payable to their father and to the Second Defendant were therefore handed over to the Plaintiff. After completion of the purchase, the Plaintiff and his family together with the Second Defendant went to live there. The backyard of that property was used to store SWS’s goods. The three brothers and Koh Geok Chuan, their cousin, helped in the unloading of the goods onto the property. They did not know how, in 1995, the Plaintiff managed to raise $1.2 million to construct a new house on that property but surmised that the money was part of the funds of the partnership.
Their father had always wanted his three sons to be equal partners in the business. For that reason, he left his entire estate, which was mainly his share in SWS and its assets, to the Plaintiff in his will made on 23 December 1972.
Between 1980 and 1990, the Defendants received only $1,000 each per month. Quarrels erupted from time to time with the Plaintiff as the Defendants felt that they, as partners, were entitled to more money because SWS was doing fairly well. It was only after much persuasion that the Plaintiff increased the amount to $1,500 per month. They restrained themselves for a long time not to demand more from the Plaintiff by virtue of their blood ties.
After some time, it became obvious to the Defendants that the Plaintiff resented their presence in SWS and they saw no purpose in continuing the partnership. They denied that the Plaintiff had ever offered them two properties to appease them and in exchange for their departure from the partnership.
In cross-examination, the First Defendant said the financial matters of the partnership were essentially in the hands of their parents between 1965 and 1979. In the 1970s, their father’s health began to deteriorate and he wanted to hand over the financial affairs of the business gradually to the Plaintiff. After their father died in 1979, the Plaintiff had complete control over SWS’s financial affairs. The bookkeeper, Gan Beng Tuck, was appointed by their parents and the First Defendant only saw him at SWS’s premises once or twice a year. He agreed that all the entries in the accounting books were written by Gan who did the accounts between 1965 and 1997.
As a teenager in the 1960s, the First Defendant would help out by doing some chores for his father after school such as collecting money from third parties or delivering some goods. He began working in SWS on a full-time basis only after completing his national service in 1971. As SWS was a family concern, his father advised the three brothers to work together to develop its business. The First Defendant, who was not yet a partner then, made deliveries to places which were further away from the office, collected payment and helped in the administrative work for the import and export of goods. He also operated a forklift to unload goods that arrived at the store and went to the bank to arrange letters of credit. The scope of his work did not change much after he became a partner. As it was a family business, there was no clear demarcation of duties. The three brothers also had informal discussions but it was the Plaintiff who made the decisions. He denied that SWS was involved in only import of goods and not in export. He had limited literacy in English but most of SWS’s customers spoke in Chinese dialects. SWS also employed a clerk. 
The First Defendant’s former car, its road tax and its insurance premium were paid for by SWS. His present car, like the Plaintiff’s car, was also paid for by SWS. His salary as determined by the Plaintiff was $1000 per month. After 1990, it was increased to $1,500 per month. He received a yearly bonus of $3,000. Whenever the Defendants asked for a higher amount, the Plaintiff would tell them the amount was sufficient so long as they had enough to spend. Even when it was the Chinese New Year, he would tell them the festivities only lasted one or two days. When he needed to go to China to seek treatment for his injured back, he told the Plaintiff he did not have sufficient money for that purpose and was given a cheque for $8,000 from SWS’s account. He did not have to return the money to SWS.
Gan Beng Tuck created a current account in the firm for each of the three partners. The First Defendant added that all accounts of SWS were handled by the Plaintiff and Gan. According to the accounting records prepared by Gan under the instructions of the Plaintiff, the First Defendant had withdrawn $607,390 while the Plaintiff had withdrawn $491,128. He did not know how these figures came about. Further, he had left SWS after a quarrel with the Plaintiff in 1986 over his meager salary and only rejoined the firm some three years later after much persuasion by their mother. He did not know how much the Plaintiff was paying himself from the firm’s money. He also knew nothing about the $1,269,391 shown in the accounts as having been paid into the firm by the Plaintiff.
When challenged on his evidence that his father had an account with the Standard Chartered Bank, the First Defendant said he knew his father had an account with that bank because he had gone to deposit cheques for his father at that bank.
Lim Kim Yan, the 93 year old mother of the three brothers, testified from a wheelchair. She was now living with her daughter. She said the Plaintiff greatly overstated his involvement in the business of SWS and marginalized that of everyone else in the family, including her late husband. She helped her husband in the business at a time when the three brothers were too young to be of any real help. The Plaintiff, contrary to what he said, was never known as Wah Seng.
She confirmed that 19 Larut Road was purchased by her and her husband in 1971 using SWS’s funds. She also confirmed what the Defendants had said about 82/82A Jalan Senang. She also said that 3 Jalan Kudah was bought using the funds of the partnership. The decision to purchase 12 Palm Grove Avenue to replace 3 Jalan Kudah using the compensation money received from the government was made by her and her husband.
She agreed that it was always her husband’s intention that their three sons share equally in the family business. Their only daughter had no share in the business. For that reason, he left his entire estate to the youngest son, the First Defendant. When she found out that the First Defendant had quarrelled with the Plaintiff and had left SWS, she persuaded him to return as she wanted all three sons to work together in the family business. The First Defendant was reluctant to do so but relented when he realized how much that meant to her. She confirmed that what the Defendants had said in their joint affidavit about her was correct.
In answer to questions put to her by counsel for the Plaintiff, Lim Kim Yan said she would like her three sons to benefit equally from the business regardless of their contributions. This was also the wish of her late husband. The three of them had worked together. Generally, the Plaintiff was in charge of collecting payments and issuing receipts, the First Defendant in charge of debts and customs declarations and the Second Defendant took care of the purchase of goods and assisted in their delivery. She would help to collect money from customers and hand the money to her husband.
She agreed that by the 1970s, her husband was very ill with liver cancer and was not spending time with the firm. He started taking opium in the late 1970s because of his illness. Gan Beng Tuck was the one who prepared the accounts of the firm since 1965. After the death of her husband, the Plaintiff took over the management of the firm. A friend of her husband, Peter Chew, assisted them in ordering wheelbarrows from Japan, the most profitable part of their business.
She was not able to say whether the Plaintiff participated in tontines. She said she actually did not know whether the compensation money for the acquisition of their property at 3 Jalan Kudah was used to pay for 12 Palm Grove Avenue. However, she said later in re-examination that the $130,000 was used to purchase that property. Nevertheless, she maintained that all the properties were purchased using the firm’s funds.
She disagreed that the Plaintiff was ever known as Wah Seng. He used to be called affectionately as Ah Yee. There was no particular reason why her husband chose the name SWS for the firm.
The final witness was the Second Defendant whose evidence was set out in the joint affidavits he swore with the First Defendant. He was now unemployed as the Plaintiff had asked him to leave the firm on 18 November 2002. He had continued working there despite the dissolution of the partnership in February 2000. In cross examination, he said he was the one who brought his mother to their lawyers to make her statutory declaration of 15 February 2001 and to do her affidavit of her evidence in chief of 17 July 2002. When his mother could not recall certain things during her conversation with the lawyers, he would remind her about them.
He testified that the Plaintiff was appointed the sole signatory of the firm’s bank account by their father. The Plaintiff would issue cheques for them to purchase goods and would also deposit the business’ cash and cheques into that account. After the demise of their father, the Second Defendant told the Plaintiff that there should be at least two signatories for the firm’s account but the Plaintiff insisted on being the sole signatory.
He agreed that the Plaintiff handled the imported wheelbarrow business as their father could not read or write in English. The Plaintiff was assisted by the clerk, Peter Chew. However, it was their father who developed this new business. The Plaintiff was in full control of the financial matters of the firm and from 1965, he was in charge of the finance, the administration and the purchase of goods. Their father was still the head of the firm and the Plaintiff needed his approval before ordering goods and withdrawing money from the business account.
He signed as a witness on a letter dated 25 February 1991 from SWS to City Developments Ltd in respect of the purchase of the two Mactech properties, authorizing the developers to enter into the sale agreement with the Plaintiff as the purchaser and to transfer the 10% deposit to the credit of the Plaintiff. He was not told of the contents which were in English. He was not literate in English. He was asked by the Plaintiff in their business premises to sign and was merely told that the firm was buying two warehouses in Kallang Pudding. He saw SWS’s stamp and the signature of the Plaintiff on the document. He then complied with the request and signed. Earlier, the Second Defendant had told the Plaintiff there was insufficient storage space for their goods and had asked him to look for more storage space. Subsequently, on the instructions of the Plaintiff, he went to the law firm of Wee Swee Teow & Company where a female lawyer told him SWS was purchasing two properties and asked him to sign as a guarantor. The lawyer told him he was signing as a guarantor only and the properties would not have his name as one of the owners. When he returned to the firm, he asked the Plaintiff why the properties were in his sole name when he was using the firm’s money to purchase them and they quarrelled.
There were also many quarrels over the issue of the Plaintiff keeping the rentals for the properties bought with SWS’s funds. Although the accounting books were accessible, the Second Defendant hardly ever looked at them. Being brothers, the Defendants trusted the Plaintiff and did not question him about the firm’s earnings. Although they were unhappy with him, they did not take legal action against him because their mother told them not to.
In 1963, when Peter Chew went to their shop to look for their father, Peter Chew was already a bankrupt. The Plaintiff got to know him only after he had gone to the shop. The Second Defendant did not agree that the Plaintiff was solely responsible for starting and developing the import of new goods business. He needed the approval of their father as head of the business before ordering the goods.
The Second Defendant agreed that the firm paid six instalments for his car, a Mercedes-Benz. However, he paid the balance. The firm paid property tax and income tax for him. He denied that he took money from the Plaintiff for his holiday trips to Thailand. He was thrifty and managed to make some money by trading in Rolex watches as a past-time. He also denied having spent little time in the firm.
The Second Defendant denied strongly that the Plaintiff was ever known as Wah Seng. He affirmed what their mother had said about the Plaintiff being referred to as Ah Yee.
Where the Jalan Senang house was concerned, the Second Defendant and the Plaintiff and his family used to live on the second level while the first level was either used to store the firm’s goods or was rented to others. The rental cheques were made out to the Plaintiff and the title deeds were kept in a safe by the Plaintiff. The property tax for the house was paid by the firm. The Second Defendant denied that the house was meant to be the Plaintiff’s family home or that it was paid by the Plaintiff. He further denied that the compensation money for 3 Jalan Kudah was handed over to the Plaintiff because the said property belonged to him. The Second Defendant lived three years in 3 Jalan Kudah and eight years in 12 Palm Grove Avenue. He was presently living in the Jalan Senang house with his wife and his children. He denied that the Plaintiff had added his name and their father’s to the title deeds of the Palm Grove Avenue property on his own volition out of filial piety. A new house was erected on 12 Palm Grove Avenue despite the Second Defendant’s objections. Neither Defendant contributed anything towards its costs. The property tax was paid by SWS.
Before the Plaintiff began his testimony, his counsel informed me that they had given Gan Beng Tuck’s address to the Defendants and would like to know whether the Defendants intended to call Gan as their witness. If they did not, the Plaintiff would like to consider the option of calling Gan as his witness.
The 60 year old Plaintiff, who currently resides at 12 Palm Grove Avenue with his family, claimed in his affidavit of 6 March 2002 that all seven properties in question were paid by him and therefore belonged to him. The registration of SWS as a partnership was a mere formality. It was, for all intents and purposes, a sole proprietorship with him as the controlling mind. He provided the capital and worked hard, taking from the firm only so much as was required to maintain himself and his family His personal funds were used interchangeably with SWS’s. He never paid himself any salary or a share of profits. He made cash advances to the firm and did not charge any rent for its use of his property as a warehouse. In short, he summarized, “there was no distinction made between my money and the firm’s money”. All payments made by the firm towards the purchase of the properties therefore originated from him.
The Defendants played no part in building up the business of SWS. They did the occasional delivery of goods and collection of sale proceeds and were essentially employees of the firm. The PWC Report of 12 October 2001 was based on documentary records and the firm’s accounts and did not take into consideration the historical development of the firm and its true nature.
The Plaintiff then proceeded to tell his version of how SWS came into being. His father used to have a permit to run a roadside karang-guni stall along the corridor outside 15A Larut Road. His father was not very interested in the business, preferring to spend his time smoking opium and leaving his mother to tend to the stall most of the time. The Plaintiff would also help out after school. In 1956, his father decided to sell the permit after a big quarrel with his mother over money and his opium smoking.
The Plaintiff was 13 years old then. He realized that his father’s heart was no longer in the business. However, their family’s livelihood depended on it. He then decided to drop out of school to help out at the stall. Together with his mother, he managed to persuade his father not to sell the permit. He helped his father collect old goods and learnt to recondition them for sale. He also managed to pick up some knowledge on how to repair car jacks. Having had only Primary Six education in the Chinese stream, he could not speak or write in English.
As his involvement in the business grew, his father became less involved, preferring to spend his time smoking opium. His father would only cycle around the neighbourhood occasionally to look for used goods to buy. The Second Defendant was only about 9 years old then. He had also dropped out of school and spent his time playing with friends. The First Defendant was 7 years old and was in a boys’ home as there was nobody at home to look after him.
The Plaintiff toiled at the stall and managed to earn $30 to $40 a day to feed the family of 5. He faithfully saved whatever excess there was and accumulated $500 to open a personal account with the nearby Bank of Tokyo in 1958. When that bank relocated, he opened a new personal account with Malayan Banking Berhad (“MBB”, now known as Maybank) to replace the first account.
The Plaintiff also started participating in tontines, paying a $100 monthly fee to the tontine operators, the big groups being Soon Huat Heng, Lim Ban Seng and Eng Guan.
With the tontine proceeds and his savings, he bought 120 new imported Japanese wheelbarrows in 1963 at the price of $22 each from a company owned by Peter Chew who used to go to the Larut Road area to persuade the vendors to sell his imported goods. He made “a handsome profit” on this first batch of wheelbarrows and therefore began to purchase more imported Japanese goods in greater quantities. As a result, the secondhand goods business started by his father gradually changed into a new trade in quality, imported goods and his father ceased to be involved in the business from then on. The then 16 year old Second Defendant would only go to the stall to look up friends and go drinking with them while the First Defendant was still living in the boys’ home at that time.
Around 1965, Peter Chew’s business failed and he became a bankrupt. Peter Chew told the Plaintiff he could import the goods himself but would need to register a business in order to obtain the requisite letters of credit. The Plaintiff told his father what Peter Chew said and, after some discussions, they decided to register the business. His father applied for registration, naming the business SWS, with “Sin” meaning “new” and “Wah Seng” being the name people used to call the Plaintiff in school. Peter Chew would be helping the Plaintiff with correspondence in English and be paid a small commission.
The Plaintiff opened a business account with MBB, using money he had saved and would normally have placed in his personal account to open the business account of SWS. He was the account’s sole signatory. That account was used mainly to apply for letters of credit and to receive cheque payments made out to SWS. Cash payments continued to be banked into his personal account. He would transfer funds from his personal account to the business account and vice versa whenever one was short of funds. He would use both accounts interchangeably for the running of the business. He “made no distinction between what was mine and what was the firm’s because I was in total control of both accounts”. It did not occur to him that he could withdraw a share of the profits for himself. He supported the family and used the excess money for the expansion of the business.
Gan Beng Tuck was a bookkeeper who would go to the shop once a year to collect the sales book, purchase book, bills and receipts from the Plaintiff. Gan would then take these home with him to prepare the accounts of SWS. As the Plaintiff had no knowledge of accounting, he never gave Gan any instructions on how to prepare the accounts. Occasionally, Gan would ask him questions to differentiate between personal and business expenses. Gan did SWS’s account from 1965 to 1997 without much help from the Plaintiff.
About a year after the registration of SWS, when it was time to do the tax returns, the Plaintiff discovered for the first time that his father had registered the business as a partnership comprising his father, the Plaintiff and the Second Defendant. He did not see any harm in that since he continued to be in full control of the business. He also did not understand the legal implications from this as he did not even know what a partnership was. The business was not worth much then anyway and it was more important to give his father face and respect his wishes.
After the registration of SWS, business in Japanese pulley systems and jacks was very good. The Plaintiff also imported goods from England and Italy with the help of Peter Chew. The space outside 15A Larut Road was too small for the thriving business. Therefore, in 1968, he took over a two-storey shop unit at 19 Larut Road after buying out a Malay family which was renting the premises by paying them $7,000 as “kopi money”. That was SWS’s first proper place of business and it was fortuitous that the Plaintiff rented that house as the Bukit Ho Swee fire which occurred soon thereafter destroyed their family’s attap house there. The family then moved into 19 Larut Road as well.
With the construction industry expanding rapidly during those years, SWS also had a booming business. Despite that, the Plaintiff operated with minimal help on a cash-and-carry basis. The firm did not make deliveries and where it had to arrange for trucks to deliver bulk orders, it was the customer who had to pay for the hire of those trucks. A relative, Koh Geok Chuan, helped with the day-to-day running of the firm by doing things like carrying and stacking up the goods. The Plaintiff’s mother also helped out occasionally with some light work. Peter Chew would go to the firm in the afternoon to write letters to the overseas suppliers. His father would merely loiter in the neighbourhood. His two brothers also rendered no assistance to the Plaintiff.
The Plaintiff placed more money with the tontines now. From $100 per month, the payment became $1,000 every month. With his prudent savings, he managed to buy 19 Larut Road for about $6,000 around 1971. However, that house was insufficient for the family as it was used for storage as well. The First Defendant was also back with the family. Accordingly, in 1969, the Plaintiff decided to purchase a place of his own and bought 82/82A Jalan Senang for some $69,000. He paid off the previous owners’ outstanding loan of $26,000 and paid the balance of some $43,000 by cheque in two instalments to the law firm of Wee Swee Teow & Company. Although it was bought for his own residential use, his father told him to register the property in the joint names of the Plaintiff, his father and the Second Defendant. His father felt that the property should be kept in the family and if it was registered in their three names, none of them could sell the property without the consent of the others. The father’s wishes were complied with out of filial respect and piety. The Plaintiff had no intention of selling the property anyway and all in the family were on good terms. The 27 year old Plaintiff then moved in to the newly acquired house with the Second Defendant.
That same year, the Plaintiff got married and his wife went to live in Jalan Senang, too. She also helped out in the business.
About a year later, the Plaintiff felt the house was too far from the shop. He therefore rented and moved to 56 Veerasamy Road which was near Larut Road. The ground level of the Jalan Senang property was then rented out while the Second Defendant continued living on the second level.
Around 1973, a property agent recommended to him 3 Jalan Kudah, a bungalow with an area of 15,000 square feet, which was being offered for sale at a cheap price. The Plaintiff bought the property for $79,000 using his savings from the business and his tontine proceeds. Again, his father wanted him to register it in the same names to keep the property within the family and, “not foreseeing any dispute over ownership”, the Plaintiff complied. He occupied this property with his wife and three children while setting aside a room for the Second Defendant who led his own life despite living in the same house. The back of the house was used as a store for some of the goods of SWS.   (1) MBB cheque 029623 for $27,500;  (2) MBB cheque 029624 for $80,000;  (3) Standard Chartered Bank cheque 412003 for $100,000; and  (4) MBB cheque 374571 for $78,120.  (1) cheque dated 26 May 1993 for $25,000;  (2) cheque dated 16 September 1994 for $19,000;  (3) cheque dated 22 November 1994 for $7,000; and  (4) cheque dated 31 December 1994 for $318,900.