This action is brought by the Plaintiff, Chip Thye Enterprises (Pte) Ltd (in Liquidation), acting through its liquidator against the Defendants, some of whom were the shareholders and former directors of the Plaintiff.
The Plaintiff was incorporated on 20 January 1973. It was a family owned company engaged in the building construction business. Phay Gi Mo, the 1 st Defendant (“D1”) and Pey Lim Cheng, the 2 nd Defendant (“D2”) are brothers and they managed the business. D2 as the chairman and director was the major shareholder (46.7%) of the company. D1 was the managing director with a 33.3% share in the equity of the company. The 4 th Defendant, Pey Ciew Chang (“D4”) is the son of D2 and he held a 6.7% interest in the company and was a director from 1982 until 15 April 1994. D1 is the uncle of D4.
The estate of Lee Tiang Chin, deceased is the 3 rd Defendant (“D3”). Lee Tiang Chin was the wife of D2. D2 is now the personal representative of her estate. Prior to her death, Lee Tiang Chin held a 13.3% stake in the Plaintiff. By Order of Court dated 21 June 2002, the proceeding against D3 was allowed to continue against D2 as personal representative of the estate as if he was substituted as a party.
The Plaintiff was the main contractor of a condominium and bungalow development at Tanglin Hill. The owner and developer of the Tanglin Hill project was Capital Realty Pte Ltd (“Capital Realty”). The Plaintiff subcontracted the entire building contract to Articon Construction Pte Ltd (“Articon”).
It is common ground that the Plaintiff allowed its name to be used by Articon to tender for the Tanglin Hill project as Articon did not have the required CIDB rating to tender for such a large project. For lending its name to secure the contract, Articon was to pay to the Plaintiff what was described by D1 as administrative expenses in the sum of $150,000. Articon’s loan facility of $4.7 million being its working capital requirements for the Tanglin Hill project was guaranteed by a corporate guarantee from the Plaintiff. The Plaintiff executed in favour of Overseas Union Bank (“OUB”), a Deed of Assignment whereby the Plaintiff assigned all its rights, title and interest to and in all payments arising out of the Tanglin Hill project. The project was completed at the end of 1997. Articon was wound up by an Order of Court dated 28 May 1999.
The close relationship between the Plaintiff and Articon was not denied. The Plaintiff had a 35% shareholding in Articon and another 16.6% were held by D4. D4 was a director of Articon from 1983 to 1999.
In Civil Appeal no. 50 of 2000 reported in [2000] 4 SLR 548 , the Court of Appeal allowed Capital Realty’s appeal for the repayment of an outstanding loan in the sum of $500,000. The appellate court found that the various payments made by Capital Realty were loans to the Plaintiff and judgment was entered against the Plaintiff. The Plaintiff defaulted on the judgment and Capital Realty on 13 February 2001 petitioned for the company to be wound up. The Plaintiff was wound up by Order of Court on 23 March 2001.
The Plaintiff was named as main contractor in contemporaneous documents such as letters from the quantity surveyor and the architect. Chao JA delivering the judgment of the Court of Appeal made the following observations at 558: “The documentary evidence further showed that during the course of the [Tanglin Hill] project, the respondents [Chip Thye] and Articon did not draw a clear distinction between themselves. Letters addressed to one would be responded to by the other. Payments for invoices directed at the respondents [Chip Thye] would be settled by Articon and vice versa.” It was noted in the report that although D1 was not a director of Articon, nevertheless he was a cheque signatory to the bank account of Articon.
The liquidator’s contention is that once the Plaintiff was insolvent, D1 and D2 as directors owed a duty to keep its property inviolate in order to pay its creditors. This breach of duty of the directors of the Plaintiff, in failing to act bona fide in the interests of its creditors during the Plaintiff's insolvency, forms the basis for the action against D1 and D2. The complaint against D1 and D2 involved breaches of directors' duties and arising in consequence of the fiduciary character of their duties, obligations as trustee of the Plaintiff’s assets in respect of six specific improper transactions (“improper transactions”). Initially the improper transactions numbered in total seven until one allegation concerning audit confirmations to Articon was withdrawn during the course of the trial. The liquidator of the Plaintiff, Khoo Ho Tong (“KHT”), contends that most if not all the improper transactions resulted in the Defendants benefitting exclusively at the expense of the Plaintiff and its creditors and at the time when the Plaintiff was insolvent.
D1 and D2 contend that the transactions in question were done or made when the company was solvent. There was nothing improper about the transactions. 
D2 did not testify at the trial. D1 and D4 said that he is old and suffers from ill health. Their approach was that whatever D1 had to say, it would equally apply to D2. It was also the Defendants’ stance towards the alleged improper transactions that D1 and D2 acted on the advice of the auditors. The difficulty with the argument is that without calling the auditors the truth of what was said is not proven. The Defendants are left with their bare assertion which, at best, is hearsay evidence and is not admissible.
The three broad categories of director’s duties are: fiduciary, duties of skill, care and diligence, and statutory duties. The general principle is that directors have a duty to act in the best interest of the company as a whole. The directors owe fiduciary duties to the company, not to the individual shareholders.
When a company is insolvent, the interests of the creditors become the dominant factor in what constitutes the “benefit of the company as a whole.” See West Mercia Safetywear Limited (In Liq.) v Dodd[1988] BCLC 250 which was followed and applied by Tay Yong Kwang JC (as he then was) in Tong Tien See Construction Pte Ltd (in liquidation) v Tong Tien See & Ors[2002] 3 SLR 76 .
Dillon LJ in West Mercia approved the speech of Street CJ in Kinsela v Russell Kinsela Pty Ltd (in liq)[1986] ACLR 395 at 401, where Street CJ said: “In a solvent company the propriety interests of the shareholders entitle them as a general body to be regarded as the company when questions of the duty of directors arise. If, as a general body, they authorise or ratify a particular action of the directors, there can be no challenge to the validity of what the directors have done. But where a company is insolvent the interests of the creditors intrude. They become prospectively entitled, through the mechanism of liquidation, to displace the power of the shareholders and directors to deal with the company’s assets. It is in a practical sense their assets and not the shareholder’s assets that, through the medium of the company, are under the management of the directors pending either liquidation, return to solvency, or the imposition of some alternative administration.” 
The duty is owed to creditors present or future: Winkworth v Edward Baron Development Co Ltd & Ors [1986] 1WLR 1512 at 1516.
Lai Siu Chiu J in Federal Express Pacific Inc. & Another v Meglis Airfreight Pte Ltd and 5 Ors, Suit No. 96 of 1998, 20 February 1998 (unreported) at paragraph 17 of her Grounds of Decision after reviewing some of the cases referred to above including Nicolson v Permakraft[1985] 1 NZLR 242 (3 ACLC 453) and Brady v Brady [1988] 2 All ER 617 said: “Whatever is the scope of the directors’ fiduciary duties towards creditors, it is clear from the authorities above that they do owe such duties to the company’s creditors when the company, through their actions, is insolvent, potentially insolvent or put in a situation where its creditors will be prejudiced and the company is or likely to be unable to satisfy its debts with these creditors.”
There is support in the cases for the view that the test for putting a company into liquidation under s254(1)(e) read with subsection (2)(c) of the Companies Act (Cap.50) is one of fact to be decided in the light of all the circumstances of the case: Re Sanpete Builders (S) Pte Ltd[1989] 1 MLJ 393 . Insolvency is established as a fact in a number of ways: Societe General v Statoil Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Suit no. 786 of 1999, 20 April 2000, decision of Rajendran J (unreported). The court would look, for instance, at the accumulated losses to see if it were in excess of its capital; nature of the assets of company or were they book debts; current liabilities over current assets; prospect of fresh capital or financial support from shareholders and incoming payments from any source to discharge the debts including credit resources. See Chao JC (as he then was) in Re Sanpete Builders (S) Pte Ltd at 400.
These cases expanded the tests of insolvency enunciated by Grimberg JC in Re Great Eastern Hotel (Pte) Ltd[1998] SLR 841 . The tests of insolvency applied were termed by the learned Judicial Commissioner as the practical and theoretical tests. The practical test answers the question “Has the company failed to meet a current demand for a debt already due?” and the theoretical test looks at whether there is a deficit after balancing overall liabilities against assets.
The question to ask is “when was the company unable to pay its debts as they fell due?”. It is to be answered by focusing on the company’s financial position taken as a whole by reference to whether a person would expect that at some point the company would be unable to meet a liability. The various tests such as quick assets test, balance sheet test or cash flow test are all different measures of solvency and depending on the facts of the case, one test or a combination of tests may or may not be found to be appropriate. A surplus or deficiency of net assets is indicative but not necessarily determinative in establishing whether or not an entity is able to pay all its debts as and when they become due and payable. The “Quick Assets” test (sometimes known as Liquid test or Acid test), which was referred to in Re Great Eastern Hotel, is where quick assets are compared to current liabilities. “Quick” assets are those which can be readily converted into cash. The comparison gives an indication of the ability of an entity to meet current liabilities from the assets that are most readily convertible into cash.
In my judgment, it is neither helpful nor necessary to lean in favour of one or the other test. There is no single test for insolvency. Ultimately, as the cases decided by the High Court since Re Great Eastern Hotel illustrate, regard is given to all of the evidence that appears relevant to the question of insolvency. This approach is all the more applicable to a company (like the Plaintiff) that has already been wound up under s254(1)(e) of the Act and the liquidator of the company seeks to attack various transactions entered into or made before the liquidation but at the time the company was insolvent or of doubtful solvency.
KHT who has had access to the financial and accounting records of the Plaintiff testified as to the true financial position of the company for the financial years 1999 to 2001. He testified that the company was insolvent since the financial year ended 28 February 1999 in that its current liabilities exceeded its current assets and there was a net deficiency in assets in the balance sheet. KHT restated the balance sheets of the company for the three successive year-ends. In the restated balance sheets (PB6, PB8 and PB11), KHT took into account debts owing by a subsidiary and related company and contingent liabilities. Both items have a significant impact on the financial position of the company.
For the three financial years ended 28 February 1999, 2000 and 2001, a significant portion of the net assets of the company as can be seen from Table 1 below is comprised of debts owed by a subsidiary company, Centrad Engineering Pte Limited (“CE”) and Centrad Technology Pte Limited (“CT”), an associated company of CE. It is therefore appropriate to scrutinize these on their recoverability.
The debts owing by both CE and CT have been highlighted by the Plaintiff's auditors in their audit report for the audited financial statements for years ended 28 February 1997, 1998 and 1999. Because of the material amounts and the fact that the two companies sustained significant losses, the auditors were of the view that provisions against the debts may be necessary and in the event no provisions were made against the debts, they were unable to form a true and fair opinion on the company’s accounts for those years.
The Plaintiff’s investment in CE amounted to $600,000 and provision for diminution in value was already made against it as early as in the financial statements for the year ended 28 February 1996. In a directors' resolution dated 15 September 2000 following an EGM held on 15 September 1999 to dispose of CE to D1 and D2, mention was made that CE had net liabilities of $936,000 or $1.56 per CE share as at 28 February 1998.
CT’s audited accounts for the financial year ended 30 June 1997 was signed by the directors and auditors on 14 August 1999. CT’s balance sheet showed a net deficiency of assets of $871,667 and the auditors in their report raised doubts on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern without the support of the directors and shareholders.
In the Plaintiff’s audited financial statements for the financial year 1999, the subsidiary and related company debts increased to $859,374 from $515,533 the previous year. This was because $317,000 which had been in the past booked as a debt owing by D4 to the Plaintiff was claimed to be an erroneous entry and the sum was reflected as owing by CT instead of D4. CT itself required financial support from its directors and shareholders since 1996 and D4 who was a director of CT admits that no fresh capital was injected into the company.
Given the state of affairs of the Plaintiff and with what was known at the relevant times, D1 and D2 ought to have made provisions against those debts. The debts owing by CE and CT were subsequently confirmed as bad debts in the Statement of Affairs dated 23 March 2001, signed by D1.
Accordingly, I agree with KHT that the Plaintiff’s net assets for the respective financial years ended 28 February 1999, 2000 and 2001 are to be reduced by provisions against the debts owing by CE and CT at the time.
In determining balance sheet insolvency, due regard must be given to contingent liabilities. In the Plaintiff’s situation, the contingent liabilities were those of their nominated subcontractors of the Tanglin Hill project and they arose as a result of a business arrangement with an associated company, Articon. The project was completed sometime towards the end of 1997. The arrangement it had with Articon for the latter to pay nominated subcontractors would, if not earlier, have came to an end when Articon was wound up. The winding up of Articon on 28 May 1999 would nonetheless crystallised the claims from the nominated subcontractors.
The period from 28 May 1999 to 5 June 2000 is significant as the nominated subcontractors would have filed their claims with the Plaintiff and that would have allowed the directors of the Plaintiff to ascertain such contingent liabilities. The directors and auditors signed the financial statements for the year ended 28 February 1999 on 5 June 2000. No mention of such contingent liabilities were made in the notes to the accounts. In my view, the directors would have been aware of the claims of the nominated subcontractors at the latest around the time Articon was wound up. I would add that they could have been aware much earlier as D1 testified that as at March 1998, the alleged claims against Capital Realty totalling $3.8m were known. D1 has admitted whilst the Plaintiff had contracted with the nominated subcontractors, the Plaintiff were only inclined to pay them out of the Plaintiff’s claims against Capital Realty.
Accordingly, adjustments for the contingent liabilities as collated by the liquidator and unchallenged by D1 and D2 are to be made to the Plaintiff’s net assets for the respective financial years ended 28 February 1999, 2000 and 2001.
With the restated balance sheets, the financial position of the company as set out by KHT is as follows. 
As at 28 February 1999, the Plaintiff’s audited accounts showed that the cumulative losses amounted to $95,031 as compared to the KHT’s assessment of true losses of $1,729,237. In the Balance Sheet presented by the directors for the year ended 28 February 1999, current liabilities exceeded current assets by $506,952. The audited net assets of the Plaintiff as at 28 February 1999 stood at $1,404,969. After taking into account of KHT’s adjustments of $1,634,206, it changed to a net deficiency of assets of $229,237. In effect, as at 28 February 1999, all that remained of the Plaintiff’s paid up capital of $1.5 million was gone.
From then on, successive management accounts of financial years 2000 and 2001 showed excess of current liabilities over current assets of $835,824 and $9,919 respectively. The net assets of the Plaintiff as at 29 February 2000 stood at $976,866. After taking into account KHT’s adjustments, the net asset stood at a negative figure of $688,532. The net assets of the Plaintiff as at 28 February 2001 stood at $1,073,992. After taking into account KHT’s adjustments, the net assets stood at a negative figure of $883,503. In effect, as at 29 February 2000 and 28 February 2001, all that remained of the Plaintiff’s paid up capital of $1.5 million was gone.
KHT’s view is that the Plaintiff was therefore insolvent during the relevant financial years and the company’s paid up capital of $1.5million had all but disappeared. Its history of losses and deficiencies of working capital and net assets all point to that conclusion. “Q: Couldn’t you have used [the] sale proceeds to pay nominated  subcontractors?  A: Didn’t pay. Why should we use [our] own money to pay them.”  [NE155]  “Save as hereinbefore provided no dividend shall be payable except out of the profits of the company and no dividend shall carry interest as against the company. The declaration of the directors as to the amount of the profits of the company shall be conclusive.” “the fundamental principle of company law that the whole of the subscribed capital of a company with limited liability, unless diminished by expenditure upon the company’s objects..shall remain available for the discharge of its liabilities.” [p132] ….. “ ..A company has no capital profits available for dividend purposes unless on a balance of account it appears there has been an accretion to the paid up capital…” [p133] (i) Jointly and severally liable to refund the dividend payment of $321,900. (ii) To pay damages for breaches of directors’ duties quantified at $398,693.59. (iii) Interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the writ to date of payment.