This was an appeal by Dr Chee Soon Juan to judge-in-chambers from the decision of Senior Assistant Registrar Mr Toh Han Li (‘the SAR’) granting interlocutory judgment with damages (including aggravated damages) to be assessed in a defamation action brought by the respondent, Mr Lee Kuan Yew. Mr Lee is, and was at all material times, the Senior Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office, a Cabinet Minister of the Government of Singapore and the former Prime Minister of Singapore. On 25 October 2001, Mr Lee, as a candidate of the People’s Action Party (‘PAP’), was returned unopposed as a Member of Parliament for Tanjong Pagar Group Representation Constituency (‘GRC’) in the 2001 General Elections. Dr Chee is, and was at all material times, the Secretary-General of the Singapore Democratic Party (‘SDP’). Dr Chee was a candidate, along with four others, for Jurong GRC in the 2001 General Elections.
On 28 October 2001, in the course of campaigning for the 2001 General Elections, Dr Chee reportedly spoke and published certain words in public and in the presence of, inter alia, various members of the print and broadcast media at an election rally at Nee Soon Central (‘the Words’), which Mr Lee alleged to be defamatory of him. 
On 19 November 2001, the present suit was commenced by Mr Lee against Dr Chee. On 8 December 2001, Mr Lee filed an amended Statement of Claim seeking to enforce a contract of compromise arising from the publication of an apology by Dr Chee or alternatively, claiming against him for defamation. In Suit No 1460 of 2001, Mr Goh Chok Tong, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore, commenced a similar suit against Dr Chee for allegedly defamatory words spoken by him at Hong Kah West hawker centre and at the election rally at Nee Soon on 28 October 2001.
In both cases, Mr Lee and Mr Goh took out a summons in chambers application praying for interlocutory judgment with damages (including aggravated damages) to be assessed; and costs of the action, including the assessment of damages, to be taxed on an indemnity basis. Both applications were heard at the same time by the SAR, who granted the applications for interlocutory judgment. Yesterday, Mr Lee Kuan Yew was at his best. When he’s at his best, names, bad names have no problem rolling out of his tongue. He called me all sorts of names. How do I react? I say no problem. No problem. Because the more names you call me, I know the more it is that the PAP has to worry. I challenge the PAP to stop calling me names and talk about the issues… And so I challenged Mr Lee Kuan Yew yesterday to answer this one question, why is he not addressing this very important issue that the SDP is campaigning on this election…. …So when we met … when we met Goh Chok Tong this morning during our walkabout, he was there just about 3 or 4 feet away, I asked him, “Mr Goh, what happened to our money? What happened to this $17 billion?” He wouldn’t answer. He just waved us on. I am very serious about this. My friends, it is your money, this is your money, no, not the Government’s money, not Goh Chok Tong’s money. It is your money. And when I asked him and he waved us on, it hit me, it hit me very clearly, that the Government will not answer you. The Government can say, “No, I am not interested in answering you, because you are not in Parliament … But if you get Mr Ling How Doong from the SDP into Parliament, this guarantee I give you, the first question that he will ask is what has happened to our $17 billion? You must be very careful that you don’t give the entire government this free rein to take your money and use it without any opposition keeping it in check. And this is that same question that I want to ask Mr Lee Kuan Yew today. Address this point. I want to ask the media to publish this point. And you see for yourselves tomorrow my friends, see for yourself whether the media is going to publish it or not. Because this is one very important point in this election. If it will define this campaign for the SDP it is this issue. We want the media, whether it is your broadcast media or your press media to report on this what we’ve just said tonight. Because it makes all the difference. And if they report it, then I want to challenge Mr Lee Kuan Yew, please don’t live in the past, my dear Senior Minister, this is not 1961. He has said that he wants to demolish me. You can’t. Yes, can’t. This is 2001, when we don’t want to talk about demolishing anymore. We want to talk about creativity. We want to talk about innovation. We want to talk about debate. That is very important. So Mr Lee Kuan Yew, I challenge you, tell us about this $17 billion you loaned to Suharto.  Dear Sir, With reference to the incident at the Hawker Centre at Jurong East on the morning of 28 October 2001, I wish to reiterate my position that politics should not be conducted at the personal level. As such I wish to let you know that if I have offended you in a personal manner during our meeting I would like to extend to you my sincerest apologies.  At the political level, however, I stand by the issues that I have been raising in this election. Chee Soon Juan  The only reason why we brought up the issue about the $17b loan to Indonesia was to compare it with the $2.1b the SDP has proposed to help retrenched workers in Singapore. There was never any intention to cast any aspersion on anyone, least of all Mr Goh Chok Tong. I therefore withdraw my allegation that Mr Goh was dishonest and not fit to be the Prime Minister. I offer to him my apologies.  Dear Sir Defamation 1. We act for Mr Lee Kuan Yew. 2. Since 1997, the question of Singapore's financial assistance to Indonesia has been discussed, inter alia, in Parliament. In particular, and in response to questions raised by Members of Parliament, including opposition MPs, the Prime Minister, and other Ministers on his behalf, have given detailed explanations, inter alia, on the form of the said financial assistance extended by Singapore to Indonesia. 3. It has been explained in Parliament (and widely reported), as is the fact, that Singapore’s rescue package to Indonesia was in two parts: a standby loan facility of US$5 billion to Indonesia and the purchase of the Rupiah in the foreign exchange markets to support the Indonesian currency.  4. In particular, the following facts have been explained in Parliament, and equally widely reported:-  (a) with regard to the standby loan facility, Singapore’s offer of financial assistance to Indonesia was not made alone, but was part of a programme formulated with the assistance of the IMF, the World Bank and ADB. The programme included US$23 billion of financing from these agencies as well as Indonesia’s own foreign exchange reserves. Singapore was one of a number of countries, including Japan, the United States, Malaysia, Australia and Brunei, which agreed to provide supplementary financing to support the programme. Singapore’s offer of a standby loan facility was intended only as a “second line of defence” to be drawn down if the said US$23 billion financing from the IMF, the World Bank and the ADB was found to be inadequate; (b) on 31st March 1998, our client wrote to President Suharto informing him of Singapore’s decision to establish a Singapore-Indonesia Bilateral Trade Finance Guarantee Scheme (“the BTFG Scheme”). The BTFG Scheme was intended to provide export credit insurance initially for Singapore’s domestic exports to Indonesia, and later retained imports from Indonesia and eventually, exports to Indonesia through Singapore by Indonesia’s trading partners who do not have their own bilateral export credit schemes; (c) the BTFG Scheme was to have replaced the said standby loan facility of US$5 billion; and (d) no funds were ever disbursed by Singapore under the US$5 billion standby loan facility. 5. As a candidate for election to Parliament, and as the leader of the Singapore Democratic Party, you must be taken to be fully aware of the above matters. 6. We are instructed that, in the course of campaigning on 28 October 2001, you spoke the following words, inter alia, in the presence of various members of the print and broadcast media:  Yesterday, Mr Lee Kuan Yew was at his best. When he’s at his best, bad names have no problem rolling off his tongue. He calls me all sorts of names. How do I react? I say no problem. Because the more names you call me, I know the more it is that the PAP has to worry. I challenge the PAP to stop calling me names and start talking about the issues… And so I challenged Mr Lee Kuan Yew yesterday, why is he not addressing this very important issue that the SDP is campaigning on this election…. …So when we met … when we met Goh Chok Tong this morning during our walkabout, he was there just about 3 or 4 feet away, I asked him, “Mr Goh, what happened to our money? What happened to this $17 billion?” He wouldn’t answer. He just waved us on. I am very serious about this. My friends, it is your money, this is your money, no, not the Government’s money, not Goh Chok Tong’s money. It is your money. And when I asked him and he waved us on, it hit me, it hit me very clearly, that the Government will not answer you. The Government can say, “No, I am not interested in answering you, because you are not in Parliament … But if you get Mr Ling How Doong from the SDP into Parliament, this guarantee I give you, the first question that he will ask is what has happened to your $17 billion? You must be very careful that you don’t give the entire government this free rein to take your money and use it without any opposition keeping it in check. And this is the same question that I want to ask Mr Lee Kuan Yew. I want to ask the media to publish this point. And you see for yourselves tomorrow my friends, see for yourself whether the media is going to publish it or not. Because this is one very important point in the election. If it will define this campaign for the SDP it is this issue. We want the media, whether it is the broadcast media or your press media to report on this what we’ve just said tonight. Makes all the difference. And if they report it, I want to challenge Mr Lee Kuan Yew, please my dear Senior Minister, this is not 1961. He has said that he wants to demolish me. You can’t. Yes, can’t. This is 2001, when we don’t want to talk about demolishing anymore. We want to talk about creativity. So Mr Lee Kuan Yew, I challenge you, tell us about this $17 billion you loaned to Suharto. 7. The words in paragraph 6 above (“Words”) were prominently published by the media on the same and the following day. 8. By the Words, even more so to those persons who are informed of the background (of whom there are many), you have falsely alleged, inter alia, that our client is dishonest and unfit for office because: (1) he concealed from Parliament and the public, and/or deliberately misled Parliament in relation to, a $17 billion loan made to Indonesia; and (2) that our client’s continued evasion of the issue was because he had something discreditable to hide about the transaction.  9. The Words were published maliciously and constitute a very grave slander and libel against our client, who is the Senior of Singapore. The Words were calculated to gain political mileage, and to disparage our client, and impugn his character, credit and integrity. 10. In the premises, our client requires you to: (a) publish, at your expense, an apology and undertaking in terms of the draft now enclosed. The apology and undertaking is to be published with appropriate prominence in the 31st October, 1st, 2nd or 3rd November edition of the Straits Times and the Today newspaper; (b) read out the said apology at an SDP rally no later than 10 pm on 2nd November 2001; (c) compensate him by way of damages; and (d) agree to indemnify him in respect of the costs which he will have incurred in connection with this matter. 11 Our client requires your written confirmation that you will comply with these conditions, along with your offer for damages, no later than 10 am on 2nd November 2001, failing which our instructions are to commence legal proceedings against you. APOLOGY  1. On Sunday 28 October 2001, at a rally at Nee Soon Central, I made certain statements which were understood to mean that Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew is dishonest and unfit for office because: (a) Mr Lee Kuan Yew concealed from Parliament and the public, and/or deliberately misled Parliament in relation to, a $17 billion loan made to Indonesia; and (b) Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s continued evasion of the issue was because he had something discreditable to hide about the transaction. 2. I admit and acknowledge that I had no basis for making these allegations, and that they are false and untrue. 3. I, Chee Soon Juan, do hereby unreservedly withdraw these allegations and apologise to Mr Lee Kuan Yew for the distress and embarrassment caused to him by my false and baseless allegations.  4. I hereby also undertake not to make any further allegations or statements to the same or similar effect. I also wish to state that I have agreed to pay Mr Lee Kuan Yew damages by way of compensation and to indemnify him for all costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with this matter. Chee Soon Juan  (i) Dr Chee had failed to give sufficient particulars of his defence in his pleadings;  (ii) As a matter of causation, Dr Chee’s case failed. If Dr Chee’s position was that the alleged threat emanated from Mr Lee, the facts showed that the second apology was made before, not after, the alleged threat. (iii) Dr Chee was not to be believed because his case on duress shifted several times. (iv) Dr Chee’s belief that his apology would ‘lessen the consequences’ for his party colleagues was entirely misconceived and self-induced.  (v) Dr Chee was not to be believed because he had failed to complain that the second apology was induced by duress until he filed his Defence and Counterclaim on 22 December 2001; and (vi) In any case, a threat to enforce one’s legal rights cannot amount to duress. it is not sufficient to look at each factual issue one by one and to consider whether it is possible that the defendant’s story in relation to that issue is credible. The court must look at the complete account of events put forward by both the plaintiff and the defendant and … look at the whole situation. The mere fact that the defendants support their defence by sworn evidence does not mean that the court is obliged to suspend its critical faculties and accept that evidence as if it were probably accurate. If, having regard to inconsistency with contemporaneous documents, inherent implausibility and other compelling evidence, the defence is not credible, the court must say so. It should not let the filing of evidence which surpasses belief deprive a plaintiff of his entitlement to relief. Once a valid compromise has been reached, it is not open to the party against whom the claim is made to avoid the compromise on the ground that the claim was in fact invalid, provided that the claim was made in good faith and was reasonably believed to be valid by the person asserting it. A party must in any pleading subsequent to a statement of claim plead specifically any matter, for example, performance, release, any relevant statute of limitation, fraud or any fact showing illegality - (a) which he alleges makes any claim or defence of the opposite party not maintainable; (b) which, if not specifically pleaded, might take the opposite party by surprise; or (c) which raises issues of fact not arising out of the preceding pleading [Emphasis added]. Duress- A claim or defence raising duress must be specifically and carefully pleaded. It should contain full particulars of the facts and circumstances relied upon as to where, when, by whom and over whom and in what way such duress was exercised. Upon learning about the newspaper report and what Mr Lee said, my fellow candidates and/or their family members became very anxious and concerned. Some of them urged me to apologise to the plaintiff. I took what Mr Lee Kuan Yew said to be a threat that if I didn’t apologise in terms both he and Mr Goh Chok Tong demanded, they would both initiate proceedings against each of my fellow candidates mentioned above. After lengthy discussions with my fellow candidates, I felt that I had no choice but to issue the apology demanded by the plaintiffs as I did not want to risk jeopardising their future. Since recourse to law is the remedy for redress provided by the law itself, it is obvious that prima facie a threat to enforce one’s legal rights by instituting civil proceedings cannot be an unlawful or wrongful threat. Consequently a contract which is obtained by means of such a threat must prima facie be valid, and cannot be impeached on grounds of duress. So an ordinary bona fide compromise is clearly a valid contract even though exacted under threats to bring (or defend) legal proceedings… Even a threat to bring proceedings where there is no ground of action in law is prima facie not an unlawful threat, at least where the threat is made bona fide, and is not manifestly frivolous or vexatious. According to the decision in Rookes v Barnard the tort of intimidation exists, not only in threats of violence, but also in threats to commit a tort or a breach of contract. The essential ingredients are these: there must be a threat by one person to use unlawful means (such as violence or a tort or a breach of contract) so as to compel another to obey his wishes: and the person so threatened must comply with the demand rather than risk the threat being carried into execution. In such circumstance the person damnified by the compliance can sue for intimidation. The natural and ordinary meaning of the Words [50] The test as to what is the natural and ordinary meaning of the Words has been set out in Rubber Improvement Ltd & Anor v Daily Telegraph Ltd [1964] AC 234 where Lord Reid said at page 258: There is no doubt that in actions for libel the question is what the words would convey to the ordinary man: it is not one of construction in the legal sense. The ordinary man does not live in an ivory tower and he is not inhibited by a knowledge of the rules of construction. So he can and does read between the lines in the light of his general knowledge and experience of world affairs ...What the ordinary man would infer without special knowledge has generally been called the natural and ordinary meaning of the words. But that expression is rather misleading in that it conceals the fact that there are two elements in it. Sometimes it is not necessary to go beyond the words themselves, as where the plaintiff has been called a thief or a murderer. But more often the sting is not so much in the words themselves as in what the ordinary man will infer from them, and that is also regarded as part of their natural and ordinary meaning. [51] The Words in the present case were spoken in the midst of the defendant’s campaign trial with the print and broadcast media in attendance. The defendant’s intended audience was the public at large. In determining the natural and ordinary meaning of the Words, the sense or meaning intended by the defendant is irrelevant. Nor for such purpose is the sense or meaning in which the Words were understood by the defendant relevant. The meaning must be gathered from the Words themselves and in the context of the entire speech made by the defendant on that occasion. It is the natural and ordinary meaning as understood by reasonable members of the audience using their general knowledge and common sense. [52] The test as to whether the Words are defamatory of the plaintiff has been set our by the Court of Appeal in Aaron v Cheong Yip Seng [1996] 2 SLR 623 at page at 641 as an objective test, being whether “the words tend to lower the plaintiff in the estimation of right-thinking members of society generally.”  [53] Applying the above principles, the words “so I challenged Mr Lee Kuan Yew yesterday to answer this one question”, “I asked him “Mr Goh, what happened to our money? What happened to this $17 billion?”, “this is that same question that I want to ask Mr Lee Kuan Yew today” and “So Mr Lee Kuan Yew, I challenge you, tell us about this $17 billion you loaned to Suharto”, when read together meant that the plaintiff made a $17 billion loan to Indonesia and/or former Indonesian President Suharto and that the plaintiff concealed the fact of the loan from Parliament and/or the public, and/or deliberately misled Parliament and/or the public in relation to the loan. This is an imputation of dishonesty against the plaintiff. [54] The words “so I challenged Mr Lee Kuan Yew yesterday to answer this one question, why is he not addressing this very important issue” and “this is that same question that I want to ask Mr Lee Kuan Yew today. Address this point”, when read together with the words above, meant that the plaintiff was evading the issue because he has something discreditable to hide about the transaction. This is an imputation of dishonesty against the plaintiff. [55] I therefore find that the natural and ordinary meaning of the Words was that the plaintiff is dishonest and unfit for office because: (a) he concealed from Parliament and the public, and/or deliberately misled Parliament in relation to, a $17 billion loan made to Indonesia; and (b) his continued evasion of the issue was because he had something discreditable to hide about the transaction. [56] In my view, the Words were clearly defamatory of the plaintiff as they contain a clear imputation of dishonesty attributed to the plaintiff in his office as the Senior Minister of Singapore.  [57] As regards the plaintiff’s alternative claim based on innuendo, I find that as the facts relating to the financial assistance package to Indonesia were extensively discussed and published in the local media as exhibited at LKY-7 [copies of minutes of the relevant proceedings in the Singapore Parliament] and LKY-8 [newspaper articles on the financial assistance package, the Stand-by Facility and the BTFG Scheme], a person who heard the Words would have understood them to bear the meaning I have set out at paragraph 55 by way of innuendo. Liability for republication [58] In Gatley on Libel and Slander (9th Ed, 1998) the editors state at page 151 as follows: Cases of defamation are subject to no peculiar rule but are governed by the general principles of tort with regard to causation and remoteness of damage. Hence, if repetition is the natural and probable consequence of the original publication the defendant is liable for the damage caused by it. [59] In Goh Chok Tong v Jeyaretnam Joshua Benjamin [1998] 1 SLR 547 Rajendran J held at pages 584-586: …There are only two causes of action – the one cause against the original publisher and the second cause against the republisher. The damages to be assessed for the original publication must extend to include foreseeable loss, including loss arising out of foreseeable republication. … The general rule…is simply that the original publisher is liable for his publication and the republisher for his republication. Separate acts constitute separate torts. However, applying the rules relating to remoteness of damage to the original tort, it is conceivable that the original publisher is liable for the republication where that republication was more likely than not the consequence of the original publication. If the defendant authorised or intended the republication, it would almost certainly be the case that republication was a foreseeable consequence… [Emphasis his]  If republication is not too remotely foreseeable a consequence, then the damage resulting from republication is damage not too remote, and the defendant is liable for the whole damage arising out of this original publication… [60] In my judgment, it was a virtual certainty that the Words would be republished by the media for the following reasons:  (a) the Words were spoken in the course of campaigning for Parliamentary General Elections;  (b) the plaintiff is the Senior Minister, and the defendant is the Secretary-General of the SDP. Both parties were therefore high-profile candidates, and extensive media coverage of their speeches and campaign activities was a certainty; (c) the defendant had announced to the media that the alleged loan to Indonesia, which was the subject of the Words, was the most important issue on the SDP’s campaign agenda. On the morning of 28 October 2001, the defendant had said the following to members of the media: we kept saying Suharto, Suharto, Suharto find me one word, just that one word in Suharto in today’s Straits Times did anybody say it? But that’s the most important thing in our campaign right now, alright? (d) the defendant spoke the Words in the presence of a large number of representatives from the print and broadcast media; (e) the defendant spoke the Words in a sensational and aggressive manner; and (f) in the same speech in which the defendant spoke the Words, he said: I want to ask the media to publish this point. And you see for yourselves tomorrow my friends, see for yourself whether the media is going to publish it or not. Because this is one very important point in this election. If it will define this campaign for the SDP it is this issue. We want the media, whether it is your broadcast media or your press media to report on this what we’ve just said tonight. Because it makes all the difference.  [61] In the circumstances, I find that the defendant intended and in fact demanded that the journalists republish his Words and I accordingly find him liable for the republication of the Words. 