The plaintiff, Macquarie Corporate Telecommunications Pte Ltd is a Service-Based Operator licensed by the Info-Communications Development Authority of Singapore (“the IDA”) to provide telecommunications services. It is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Macquarie Corporate Telecommunications Holdings Ltd of Australia.
The first defendant, Phoenix Communications Pte Ltd is incorporated in Singapore and is also a Service-Based Operator, and is a competitor of the plaintiff.
The second defendant was an Accounts Manager with the first defendant. In the agreement between him and the first defendant he was referred as an agent. He received commissions for business he brought to the first defendant and was one of its top accounts managers. He is a qualified accountant and has previously worked in a succession of jobs as investment analyst, securities dealer, fund manager, treasury manager and financial controller.
The plaintiff sued the defendants for defaming it in three emails sent by the second defendant to customers of the plaintiff. The plaintiff identified the passages of each email it complained of.
This email was sent by the second defendant to Lucent Technologies Singapore Pte Ltd.
The plaintiff took objection from three passages in the email - (Para 2) Phoenix is the only service provider which has two 64E1 switches located at Comcentre with SingTel which can cater to high volume IDD traffic. It is offering premium quality IDD service unlike most of the other independent service providers which use VOIP and pass it round as premium service. (Para 3) For your information, Macquarie Corporate Communications (MCC) is a very small operator with one switch in Singapore. Its parent in Australia is a loss maker and had just reported A$17 million loss and its share price has collapsed from A$3.20 to A$0.10, reflecting its dire straits. (Para 7) In any case, you might be interested to know that MCC’s one year contract is not legal under the SBO licence issued by Infocomm Authority of S’pore.
The plaintiff claimed that In their natural and ordinary meaning, the above statements in the 1 March 2002 Email meant and/or would be understood to mean that the Plaintiffs:- (a) Do no offer and/or are not capable of offering quality, premium IDD services to their customers; (b) Provide Voice-over-IP (“VOIP”) services to their customers instead of providing quality, premium IDD services and that they misrepresent or pass off such VOIP services to these customers as being IDD services; (c) Run a crude and/or temporary operation devoid of any substance in Singapore, with only one switch in Singapore, that being a small number as compared to other telecommunications operators; and/or (d) Are, as a result of their contractual arrangements or otherwise, operating in breach of the SBO licence issued and/or regulations enforced by IDA;
This was sent to another of the plaintiff’s customers, Citibank.
The plaintiff complained that 11 passages of the email are defamatory: (Para 2) With two switches, this will offer stability and also be a better guard against system breakdown, unlike Macquarie which cannot afford to spend millions of dollars on switches as it is a makeshift operation and thus only a PC located at its offices. PC cannot handle high volume traffic and is unstable. Because of its small size, Macquarie cannot afford to offer you quality service at low rates. Among the SBOs, Macquarie’s pricing is the highest. (Para 3) Compared to Macquarie’s pricing of 50% discount on SingTel 001 rates … (but offering inferior quality under 1591 dialling code), Phoenix IDD service will enable your company to shave off 40% over Macquarie’s billings. (Para 4) BTW, Macquarie contract is not enforceable under IDA regulations. (Para 5) According to SingTel’s internal analysis, they do not expect Macquarie to survive very long as their cashflow is under strain. SingTel will have no hesitation cutting off all their lines the moment Macquarie do not pay their bills on time. This means your whole office will suffer a blackout for overseas calls. SingTel has no obligations to your company since you have signed up with Macquarie. According to SingTel, Macquarie has asked for additional grace period for paying their arrears. (Para 6) For your information, Singapore is Macquarie’s first and only overseas testbed and it’s a failure. (Para 8) Wilson Hoe, telecom manager of JP Morgan Chase told me his bank is not that foolish and that Macquarie are a bunch of liars who go round quoting his bank as a customer. (Para 10) Winnie Lee of Daimler Chrysler South East Asia said that through her company’s independent checks on Macquarie, they found them not to be truthful. (Para 11) The regional logistics manager of Siemens Advanced Engineering, Tina Cheam told me that they have received a written letter from SingTel questioning Macquarie’s honesty. According to her, the negative language used by SingTel is very direct and strong, leaving no doubt about Macquarie’s unscrupulous sales methods all the way from Macquarie’s CEO in Australia down to the bottom sales staff in Singapore. (Para 14) According to the general manager of Evergreen Marine, the service quality of Macquarie is no good and there is no savings. (Para 15) Russell Tang (tel: 6486 3037), the regional telecom manager for Motorola would like to hear separately from you if Macquarie sales staff has been quoting Motorola’s name because Macquarie has been repeatedly warned that Motorola do not want to be embarrassed by association.
The plaintiff pleaded that In their natural and ordinary meaning, the above statements in the 16 October 2002 Email, meant and/or would be understood to mean that the Plaintiffs: -
This email was also sent by the second defendant to Citibank.
The plaintiff claimed that it was defamed in two passages of the email which stated (Para 2) Phoenix corporate philosophy is the opposite of Macquarie’s and the management strongly emphasise underselling its service unlike Macquarie which oversells. Whenever a client discovers its lies, Macquarie has superb damage control in place to pacify and convince the clients to stay. Macquarie has perfected the art of damage control post-sales for all its lies. Phoenix has a long term strategy as the biggest SBO to uphold its reputation and do not have carefully thought-out lies to entice clients like Macquarie. (Para 3) BTW, Macquarie has been aggressively using your bank’s name in their pitch to potential clients.
The plaintiff pleaded that In their natural and ordinary meaning, the above statements in the 18 October 2002 Email meant and/or would be understood to mean that the Plaintiffs:- (a) Deliberately and/or dishonestly sell more telecommunications capacity than they can provide; (b) Would be unable to efficiently service their customers due to the alleged overselling of their services; (c) Conduct their business in a deceitful and/or fraudulent manner; (d) Fabricate facts and generate lies in their dealings with customers; (e) Are untrustworthy and should be avoided at all costs; (f) Employ underhand tactics in acquiring customers; and/or (g) Have no regard whatsoever for their customers’ confidentiality.
The plaintiff claimed damages against the defendants and an injunction to restrain them from making the same or similar statements against it.
The first defendant denied that the emails were defamatory and also denied that it was liable for the statements made by the second defendant. In the course of the hearing, the first defendant abandoned the position and arrived at a settlement with the plaintiff. 
However it made a claim against the second defendant for an indemnity and costs from him in respect of any sum that the plaintiff may recover from it.
The second defendant’s first line of defence is that the words complained of were not defamatory.
The other defences raised are (i) the statements were true in substance and fact (the defence of justification); (ii) the statements were fair comments on matters of public interest, and (iii) the statements were published on occasions of qualified privilege.
Each of the statements that the plaintiff alleged to be defamatory must be considered to establish whether it is defamatory. For that purpose the test set by Lord Atkin in Sim v Stretch [1936] 3 All ER 1237, “would the words tend to lower the plaintiff in the estimation of right-thinking members of society generally” is a good starting point.
The defence denied that each of the email “bore or were understood to bear or were capable of the meanings pleaded” without elaboration. The closing submissions merely repeated that the second defendant “denies that the words used bored the meanings pleaded by the Plaintiffs”. More detailed consideration should be given to the statements.
When I did that, I found some of the statements were indeed not defamatory. The cited passages of each email were read individually and collectively to ascertain their meaning and effect. I will explain why I do not find some of the statements defamatory, and note those which are defamatory. It is not necessary to explain why the latter statements are defamatory, as that is evident on the face of the statements. For ease of identification the defamatory statements are indicated by the underlining of the paragraph numbers in paras 6, 9 and 12. (i) Para 2 makes no reference to the plaintiff at all. There is reference to “most of the other independent service providers which use VOIP and pass it around as a premium service”. On a plain reading, it does not imply that the plaintiff was one of the operators referred to. (ii) Para 3 .  The first sentence refers to the plaintiff as a very small operator with one switch. The plaintiff complained that “a plain reading of this sentence will bear the meaning that the Plaintiffs run a rudimentary operation with limited capabilities.”[1] The plaintiff has read too much into the sentence. While it does described the plaintiff as a small operator, it does not disparage its services. (iii) Para 7 is defamatory. (i) Paras 3, 4 and 14 are not referred to in the plaintiffs’ closing submissions and I take them to be abandoned. (ii) Para 15 refers to Motorola’s reluctance to be associated with the plaintiff. As no reason was given for Motorola’s alleged embarrassment this statement is not defamatory of the plaintiff. (iii) Paras 2, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11 are defamatory. (i) Para 3 is not defamatory because it was not stated or implied that the use of Citibank’s name was in breach of confidence as the plaintiff had alleged. (ii) Para 2 is defamatory. A Licensee must not make any claim or suggestion regarding the availability, price or quality of its telecommunication service or equipment, or of the telecommunication service or equipment of another Licensee, that is not supported by objective evidence or that is reasonably likely to confuse or mislead End Users. The statement that the plaintiffs have superb damage control, is time in substance and in fact, as despite virtually all 143 odd customers complaining about the Plaintiffs poor quality of IDD telecommunication services, the Plaintiffs managed to placate and retain most of their customer, as indeed the Plaintiffs have attempted to portray.[6] My boss, Mr Nagi, who is an administrative manager with Ricoh Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, and I were approached by one Miss Anna Hu Aun Ting, an accounts manager of Macquarie Corporate Telecommunications Pte Ltd (the Plaintiffs). The said Miss Anna Hu Aun Ting offered, on Macquarie Corporate Telecommunications Pte Ltd (the Plaintiffs’) behalf, to sell SingTel 001 Service to our company at 15% discount. Due to the attractiveness of this offer, our company signed a one (1) year service agreement with Macquarie Corporate Telecommunications Pte Ltd. To succeed in the defence the defendant must show that the words are comment and not a statement of fact. However, an inference of fact from other facts referred to may amount to a comment. He must also show that there is a basis for the comment, contained or referred to in the matter complained of. The comment must satisfy the test of being “objectively fair” in the sense that an honest or fair-minded person could hold that view. The defence is not, however, inapplicable because the comment was prejudiced or exaggerated or “unfair” in the ordinary sense of that word. Finally, the defendant must show that the comment is on a matter of public interest, one which has been expressly or implicitly put before the public for judgment or is otherwise a matter with which the public has a legitimate concern. If the plaintiff can show that the comment was actuated by malice, he will defeat the plea. There are occasions upon which, on grounds of public policy and convenience, less compelling than those which give rise to absolute privilege, a person may yet, without incurring liability for defamation, make statements about another which are defamatory and in fact untrue. On such occasions of privilege a person is protected if the statement was fairly warranted by the occasion (that is to say, was reasonably necessary to achieve the purpose for which the law grants the privilege) and so long as it is not shown that he made the statement with malice, i.e. knowing it to be untrue or with some indirect or improper motive. These occasions are called occasions of qualified privilege, for the protection which the law, on grounds of public policy, affords is not absolute but depends on the honesty of purpose with which the defamatory statement is made. The rule being founded on the general welfare of society, new occasions for its application will necessarily arise with continually changing conditions, though the long established statutory protection for various reports has reduced the need to extend the common law. To gain protection, the statement must be fairly warranted by the occasion, that is to say it must be reasonably necessary for the performance of the duty or the protection of the interest which underlies the privilege. This may exclude the publication of some irrelevant matter, but it also means that the court may have to balance the relative harm to the defendant if the statement is not published and to the plaintiff’s reputation if it is. (M)ost privileged occasions under the common law may be very broadly classified into one of two classes: where the maker of the statement has a duty (whether legal, social or moral) to make the statement and the recipient has a corresponding interest to receive it; or where the maker of the statement is acting in pursuance of an interest of his and the recipient has such a corresponding interest or duty in relation to the statement or where he is acting in a matter in which he has a common interest with the recipient. What is required on the part of the defamer to entitle him to the protection of the privilege is positive belief in the truth of what he published or, as it is generally though tautologously termed, ‘honest belief’. If he publishes untrue defamatory matter recklessly, without considering or caring whether it be true or not, he is in this, as in other branches of the law, treated as if he knew it to be false. But indifference to the truth of what he publishes [the absence of honest belief] is not to be equated with carelessness, impulsiveness or irrationality in arriving at a positive belief that it is true. (W)here the defendant purposely abstains from inquiring into the facts or from availing himself of means of information which lie at hand when the slightest inquiry would show that the imputation was groundless, or where he deliberately stops short in his inquiries in order not to ascertain the truth, a jury may rightly infer malice. 4.2 In marketing and promoting the Services, the Agent shall faithfully comply with the instructions and policies which Phoenix Comms may from time to time implement; 4.9 The Agent shall ensure that the sale and marketing of any designated Telecommunication Services do not cause any annoyance, embarrassment, harassment or nuisance of any kind whatsoever to the public or any person whomsoever; and 8.1 The Agent shall indemnify and keep indemnified Phoenix Comms from and against all claims, losses, damages, costs or liability whatsoever suffered or incurred by reason of: Even before March 2002, I had told the second defendant before not to run down other parties, including competitors, in trying to sell or market the first defendants’ Services.