The 1 st plaintiffs (“TJ Systems”) in this suit are a Singapore registered company in the business of supplying security systems. The 2 nd plaintiff, Ting Siew Hood (“Ting”), is the managing director of TJ Systems and the 3 rd plaintiff, Leow Chin Bee (“Leow”), is a director. The 4 th and 6 th plaintiffs, Wang Yong Hong and Foong Kok Seng (“Wang” and “Foong” respectively) are employed as sales staff of TJ systems. 
The defendant is the system sales manager of a Singapore company named “Cisco Security Technology Pte Ltd” (“Cisco”). Cisco too are in the business of supplying security systems and are competitors of TJ Systems. 
Earlier this year, the 1 st, 2 nd, 3 rd, 4 th and 6 th plaintiffs successfully brought a claim in the tort of defamation against the defendant in relation to an e-mail that the defendant had sent to 15 of his colleagues. 
The facts are fairly straightforward. In early June 2002, Ting and Leow were interviewed by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (“the CPIB”) in connection with an ongoing investigation against a police officer from the Police Technology Department (“the PTD”). On the evening of 11 June 2002, the defendant sent an e-mail to 15 persons within Cisco which contained the following message: This is to share with you that TJ system (sales staff and directors) has been called up by CPIB for investigation on bribery made to a police officer from Police Technology Dept, on 6 June 2002. CPIB are reviewing all information relating to projects awarded to TJ System by PTD in the last 4 years. From a reliable source, PTD has internally debar (sic) TJ System for future projects, or any supplier/vendor who works with them to bid for police projects, as CPIB has possessed “strong” evidence against TJ. If you have any dealings with TJ, please restrain (sic) from doing it as TJ System is our competitor and we should not help our competitor to grow. Regards Jonathan Ngow Manager, System Sales Cisco Security Technology
The nine named plaintiffs brought an action in the High Court against the defendant in the tort of defamation, alleging that by reason of the publication of the e-mail, their reputations had been injured. The defendant proceeded on the basis that the e-mail was not defamatory, and also relied on the defences of fair comment, qualified privilege and justification. The 1 st, 2 nd, 3 rd, 4 th and 6 th plaintiffs succeeded before the trial judge who ordered that damages be assessed by the Registrar. The claims of the other plaintiffs were dismissed with costs as they had chosen not to testify at the trial. The purpose of the hearing before me was to assess the damages to be paid by the defendant to the five successful plaintiffs.
In finding the e-mail defamatory, the learned trial judge said at paragraph 39 of her judgment: 39 There is little doubt that the following extract in the email is defamatory of TJ …CPIB has possessed strong evidence against TJ Read in their context, the words (reinforced by the words internally debar TJ Systems for future projects) impute the possible commission of a criminal offence (bribery) by the company or, TJ’s imminent prosecution for corruption a police officer/public servant. Giving these words the most innocuous interpretation, they meant that the company was suspected of having bribed PTD staff to procure projects. The sting of the defamation was in Ngow’s use of the words (i) investigation for bribery, (ii) internally debar from future projects and (iii) Strong evidence, the logical conclusion following upon (iii) being that ultimately, charges for abetting corruption would be preferred against TJ under s 109 read with s 161 of the Penal Code Cap 224 or, the company would be charged with corruption under ss 5(b) or 6 of the Prevention of Corruption Act Cap 241. (a) The nature and gravity of the libel itself; (b) The conduct, position and standing of the plaintiff and the defendant; (c) The natural indignation of the court at the injury caused to the plaintiff; (d) The conduct of the defendant from the time the libel is published to the very moment of the verdict; (e) An apology and retraction of the libel, if any; and (f) The presence or absence of malice. …A broad framework of awards has emerged from past cases and these cases serve as a guide in determining the appropriate amount of damages to be awarded.  In this respect, the awards made in cases preceding this appeal must be treated with care: they are not necessarily accurate indications of appropriate awards of damages. Before we turn to the individual awards, we wish to register a caveat on quantum of damages for defamation. As reflected in those precedent cases, substantial damages have been awarded for defamation. Indeed there appears to be a trend of such damages rising steadily and significantly over the past few years, and in the few recent cases, each successive award appeared to overtop the preceding one. Such a trend should be discouraged; otherwise damages for defamation would mount and eventually be extremely high, ranking almost with the grossly exorbitant awards so often made by juries in other jurisdictions. Lest it should be misunderstood, we are not suggesting in any way that there should be a cap placed on quantum of damages for defamation. We accept that ‘there could never be any precise, arithmetical formula to govern the assessment of general damages in defamation’ (per Thomas Bingham MR in John v MGN Ltd (Supra) at p 608). Each case depends on its own facts and there is a great deal of factual diversity in defamation cases. However, we wish to stress that damages, even for defamation, should fall within a reasonable bracket so that what is awarded represents a fair and reasonable sum which is proportionate to the harm and injury occasioned to the victim who has been unjustly defamed. On this point, we share the sentiment so succinctly expressed by Sir Thomas Bingham MR in John v MGN Ltd (Supra) at p 611: Any legal process should yield a successful plaintiff appropriate compensation, that is, compensation which is neither too much nor too little. That is so whether the award is made by judge or jury. No other result can be accepted as just. (a) committed fraud and gross misconduct against Speed; (b) breached s 76 of the Companies Act; (c) manipulated the accounts of Speed; (d) breached his fiduciary duties; (e) manipulated the bank reconciliation statements of Speed; and (f) committed the offence of criminal misappropriation. …and finally, Mr Tang Liang Hong has just placed before me two reports he has made to the police, against, you know, Mr Goh Chok Tong and his people. 54. …What I found to be reprehensible conduct on his part was Ngow’s total lack of regret/remorse for what can only be said to be an irresponsible act – sending out an e-mail containing such serious allegations without taking steps to verify what he had heard; even worse, embellishing the allegations in the process. (a) The recklessness of the defendant; (b) The hurt and embarrassment caused by the trial and the trial publicity; (c) The mode and extent of publication; and (d) The ease and forseeability of republication.