In OS No 948 of 2002, the plaintiffs, Publicis Groupe SA ("Publicis"), a French public-listed advertising company, which entered into a Call and Put Option Agreement with the defendant, Mr Ivan Chong Hon Kuan ("Ivan"), the former managing director and chief executive of Publicis Eureka Pte Ltd with respect to the latter’s shares in that company, sought to enforce the terms of the said contract. After hearing the arguments of counsel for both parties, I ordered that the proceedings continue as if the cause or matter had been begun by writ for reasons which are set out below.
Ivan is the founding member of Eureka Advertising Pte Ltd ("Eureka"), a local advertising agency. Under his management, Eureka made profits between 1980 and 1996. Having established the company in the local market, Ivan sought to raise Eureka’s profile in 1996 by entering into a joint venture with Publicis, a French company with an interest in the Asia-Pacific region. In December 1996, Publicis acquired 60% of the shares in Eureka, which was renamed Publicis Eureka Pte Ltd ("PEP"). The acquisition was on the assumption that Publicis and Ivan would work together to build PEP’s business. As such, Ivan was appointed PEP’s managing director and chief executive officer.
Publicis and Ivan also entered into a Call and Put Option Agreement, under which the former were granted an option to purchase the latter’s 76,800 shares in PEP "at any time within sixty (60) Business Days after the termination of [his] employment with the Company by notice in writing to [him] for all the option shares". The price for the shares was to be fixed with reference to an agreed formula and it was to be calculated and certified by PEP’s auditors.
Things did not turn out as expected. The working relationship between Publicis and Ivan deteriorated after the former incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, FCA Communications, in Singapore and it worsened after Publicis acquired the interests of Saatchi & Saatchi, an international advertising agency, in September 2000. Ivan complained vociferously that Publicis diverted lucrative business from PEP to their other companies. On the other hand, Publicis, which denied diverting profits from PEP to FCA, contended that FCA sheltered PEP from operating losses.
On 6 November 2000, Ivan’s solicitors, Rajah & Tann, asserted in a letter to Publicis’ solicitors, J Koh & Co, that Publicis had acted in a manner prejudicial to Ivan’s interest and added that he and two other original shareholders were prepared to sell their shares (the "original shareholders’ shares") in PEP to Publicis for not less than $6.4m.
Negotiations for the sale and purchase of the original shareholders’ shares continued without a breakthrough for a while. To break the impasse, Publicis’ chairman and chief executive officer, Mr Maurice Levy, informed Ivan on 15 May 2001 that his company was prepared to purchase the original shareholders’ shares for $4.4m and pay for them on the basis of a time-table proposed by Ivan. On 21 May 2001, Ivan, who claimed to have accepted Maurice’s offer, replied that he was glad that the parties had "finally come to an agreement".
The parties were supposed to sign legal documents with respect to the sale and purchase of the said shares. Unfortunately, these documents were not signed because of some disagreement between the parties. On 2 October 2001, Ivan informed Publicis that as the latter had reneged on the agreement to purchase his shares, he would commence legal proceedings. On 9 February 2002, Ivan’s employment with PEP was terminated. On 11 June 2002, Publicis sought to exercise their right under the Call and Put Option Agreement to purchase Ivan’s shares in PEP for only $2,267,904, the price calculated and certified by PEP’s auditors, Ernst & Young. Ivan refused to transfer the shares in question to Publicis.
A number of suits were filed by Ivan as a result of the dispute between the parties. These include actions in relation to his claim for damages for wrongful termination of his contract of employment, his application for leave under section 216A of the Companies Act to commence an action on behalf of PEP against Publicis, and his allegation of oppression against minority shareholders. Ivan could not serve the requisite documents in his numerous suits on Publicis in Singapore as the latter refused to appoint local solicitors to accept service of the said documents. Having made it difficult for Ivan to serve the said documents in Singapore, Publicis then instructed J Koh & Co to file OS No 948 of 2002 on 9 July 2002 to enforce the terms of the Call and Put Option Agreement.
Frustrated at not being able to serve on Publicis in Singapore the requisite documents in connection with his suits, Ivan sought leave for substituted service of the said documents on J Koh & Co. He also attempted to have his suits consolidated with OS No 948 of 2002. Publicis opposed Ivan’s applications, claiming that they had no intention to evade service and that service of the requisite documents in France was neither impossible nor impracticable. The Deputy Registrar, who heard Ivan’s application on 22 August 2002, thought that the application for substituted service was premature. As such, the question of consolidation of the numerous actions in question did not arise.
An originating summons may be a relatively simple and swift way of determining the rights and liabilities of the parties concerned. However, it is not an appropriate process where there is a dispute regarding essential facts which cannot be resolved on the basis of affidavits. Hence, Order 28 Rule 8(1) of the Rules of Court provides as follows:
Ivan’s counsel contended that whether or not Publicis may rely on the Call and Put Option Agreement cannot be determined on the basis of affidavit evidence. He made the following points:
If, as Ivan alleged, there was a binding agreement for the sale and purchase of Ivan’s shares in May 2001, Publicis cannot rely on the terms of the Call and Put Option Agreement to purchase his shares. Publicis contended that whatever may have transpired between the parties in May 2001, there was no contract because the parties did not sign the requisite legal documents pertaining to, inter alia, the sale and purchase of Ivan’s shares. Ivan disagreed and said that the parties’ solicitors were merely required to document the terms already agreed upon.
At the outset, it is worth noting that in Klerk-Elias Liza v KT Chan Clinic Pte Ltd [1993] 2 SLR 417 , 434, Karthigesu JA, who delivered the judgment of the Court of Appeal, aptly reiterated that "as a matter of principle, … an agreement to execute a formal agreement does not prevent there being a valid and concluded agreement in the meanwhile". In order to determine whether or not there was a contract in May 2001 for the sale and purchase of Ivan’s shares, the following oft-cited words of Parker J in Von Hatzfeldt-Wildenburg v Alexander [1912] 1 CH 284, 288-289, should be borne in mind:
In his note of 15 May 2001 to Ivan, Maurice stated as follows:
Ivan responded to Publicis’ offer on 21 May 2001 in the following terms:
On the same day, Ivan sent Maurice an e-mail captioned "Final Agreement". In it, he stated:
On 23 May 2001, Maurice replied to Ivan by e-mail. In his reply, which was also captioned "Final Agreement", he stated:
While Ivan claimed that a contract was concluded in May 2001 for the sale and purchase of his shares, Publicis pointed out that Maurice had, when making an offer of $3m for the shares in an earlier letter on 26 December 2000, stated as follows:
Ivan’s counsel countered that the offer contained in Maurice’s letter of 26 December 2000, some five months before the 15 May 2001 offer, was not relevant as it was not accepted by Ivan. He pointed out that a series of proposals and counter-proposals flowed between the parties before Publicis made its offer of 15 May 2001, which did not contain the words "subject to further documentation".
When attempting to fathom the true intention of the parties in this case, all the relevant circumstances must be considered. In Thomas Hussey v John Horne-Payne (1879) 4 App Cas 311, 316 , Cairns LC summarised the position as follows:
In the present case, it was not possible to decide whether Ivan’s shares had already been sold to Publicis in May 2001 on the basis of affidavit evidence. One way of resolving the dispute was to adjourn the hearing of the originating summons in order that arrangements may be made for those who filed affidavits to be cross-examined (see, for instance, Tan Yeow Khoon v Tan Yeow Tat [2001] 3 SLR 341). Another option was to convert the originating summons to a writ. After considering all circumstances, including those which will be discussed below, I took the view that whether or not the Call and Put Option Agreement had been superseded by an agreement in May 2001 for the sale and purchase of Ivan’s shares is a question that ought to be decided after a trial.
Ivan’s assertion that Publicis cannot rely on the Call and Put Option Agreement because his employment contract was unlawfully terminated will next be considered. In essence, Ivan’s counsel asserted that this is not an ordinary case of a majority shareholder buying out, after relationships have soured, the shares of a minority shareholder who has no legitimate expectation that he would not be required to sell his shares at a fair value in the event of breakdown of his relationship with the major shareholder. It was submitted that the joint venture arrangements and the terms of Ivan’s employment contract aligned his fortunes with that of PEP in such a manner that it is inconceivable that Publicis could rely on the Call and Put Option Agreement if his employment contract was wrongfully terminated.
To fortify his argument, Ivan’s counsel pointed out that his employment contract tied him to PEP for a long period of time and under the terms of the Call and Put Option Agreement, the longer he remained with PEP, the greater the multiplier for the determination of the value of his shares. Section 4.1 of the employment contract provided as follows:
Section 4.2.1 of the contract, which refers to the limited circumstances under which Ivan’s employment contract may be terminated provides as follows:
Ivan’s counsel asserted that as his dismissal had nothing to do with the circumstances referred to in section 4.2 of his employment contract, the validity of the termination of the employment contract ought to be determined by the courts before Publicis can rely on the Call and Put Option.
Publicis’ counsel stressed that when considering Ivan’s assertions, it should be noted that specific performance of an employment contract will not be ordered. However, what is relevant here is not specific performance of Ivan’s contract but whether or not a wrongful termination of his contract can, in the light of the joint venture arrangements and the unusual terms of his employment contract, entitle Publicis to take advantage of the Call and Put Option Agreement. Whether Ivan’s arguments are valid or not ought to be considered at a trial. They should not be dismissed on the basis of affidavit evidence.
If there was any remaining doubt as to whether the originating summons in question ought to be converted to a writ, they were swiftly dispelled by Publicis’ conduct in relation to the suits filed by Ivan with respect to the alleged wrongful termination of his contract of employment and sections 216A and 216 of the Companies Act. As has been mentioned, Publicis have not authorised J Koh & Co, their solicitors in this action, or any other person in Singapore to accept service of the relevant documents in Ivan’s suits and when the originating summons presently being considered was heard, the requisite documents in Ivan’s suits had still not been served in France on Publicis. Ivan’s solicitors asserted as follows:
In Drolia Mineral Industries Pte Ltd v National Resources Pte Ltd [2002] 3 SLR 163, 175, Lee Sieu Kin JC, as he then was, rightly observed:
Admittedly, Publicis’ position is that they are not trying to evade service in France of the requisite documents in Ivan’s suits. All the same, it is evident that they are making use of our courts to take over Ivan’s shares while making it difficult for the latter to serve the documents in relation to his suits against them. Much time would be saved if OS No 948 of 2002 was converted to a writ so that Publicis’ right to rely on the Call and Put Option Agreement to acquire Ivan’s shares may be considered comprehensively at a trial together with issues such as the existence or non-existence of an agreement in May 2001 for the purchase of the said shares and the effect of an unlawful termination of Ivan’s employment on the Call and Put Option Agreement. As such, I ordered that the proceedings in this case continue as if the cause or matter had been begun by writ.