This was an appeal against the decision of Belinda Ang Saw Ean J allowing the respondent’s claim in tort arising from the loss of a small steel tanker belonging to the respondent (reported at [2004] 1 SLR 300 ). The appellant’s defence of limitation of liability under s 136 of the Merchant Shipping Act (Cap 179, 1996 Rev Ed) was also rejected. We heard the appeal on 28 July 2004 and by a majority, with Judith Prakash J being undecided, dismissed the appeal on both liability and quantum. We now give our reasons.
The main substantive question that arose for consideration at the appeal was whether, in the given circumstances, a duty of care was owed by the appellant to the respondent.
In the early hours of 8 March 2001, the appellant’s vessel, the Sunrise Crane, a chemical carrier of Panamanian registry, moored alongside a small steel tanker, the Pristine, and transferred approximately 34mt of nitric acid contaminated by hydraulic oil into the No 1 wing cargo tank of the Pristine. A short while later, smoke was seen coming out from the forward vent of the Pristine which also listed a little to port. The crew from the Pristine evacuated to the Sunrise Crane and some of the crew members from the Sunrise Crane, with protective equipment and breathing apparatus, boarded the Pristine to close its valves and openings. The Pristine eventually capsized. It was subsequently established that the cargo of contaminated nitric acid had bored holes into the hull of the Pristine, causing leaks.
It was common ground that prior to the transfer of the cargo from the Sunrise Crane to the Pristine, no one on board the former informed anyone on board the latter that the substance to be transferred was contaminated nitric acid.
Earlier, on 4 March 2001, the Sunrise Crane arrived in Singapore carrying a cargo of nitric acid. However, in its tank No 3C, which contained some 34mt of the acid, the cargo was found to have been contaminated due to a leak from the vessel’s defective cargo pump. The 34mt could not be discharged with the rest of the cargo of nitric acid on board the vessel. It had to be disposed of by other safe means. The appellant knew of the highly dangerous nature of such contaminated nitric acid and that only stainless steel tanks could receive it.
The director of the appellant, Mr Kashiwagi, requested the vessel’s Protection & Indemnity (“P&I”) Club to help in the matter. The Club appointed a surveyor, Capt Gill, to find a suitable licensed contractor to remove the contaminated cargo. Eventually, Capt Gill got in touch with two possible contractors for the job. One of them was Mr Windsor of Pink Energy Enterprises (“Pink Energy”) who was told that the cargo that required disposal was 34mt of contaminated nitric acid. The trial judge accepted Capt Gill’s evidence that Mr Windsor was so told in spite of Mr Windsor’s assertion to the contrary. It was agreed between Mr Gill and Mr Windsor that the price for removing the contaminated cargo was $9,000. The proposed place of transfer was to be at the outer port limit.
Pink Energy in turn engaged Pristine Maritime Pte Ltd (“Pristine Maritime”), who had the Pristine on time charter from the owner, the respondent, to remove the contaminated cargo from the Sunrise Crane. However, Mr Windsor failed to advise Pristine Maritime, or the owner of the Pristine, that the cargo was contaminated nitric acid. Instead he said it was “contaminated lubes”. The works order issued by Pink Energy to the Pristine referred to it as “Annex I slops”, ie, petroleum slops.
The Pristine was constituted of mild steel and was used as a slop carrier. It was only capable of carrying MARPOL Annex 1 slops. It was clearly incapable of conveying MARPOL Annex II slops, which nitric acid is.
There was no direct contractual relationship between the respondent and the appellant. The respondent would undoubtedly have a claim in contract against Pristine Maritime and, in turn, Pink Energy. The question was whether the respondent nevertheless had a separate claim in tort against the Sunrise Crane for negligence for failing to inform the Pristine of the nature of the cargo immediately prior to the transfer of the contaminated cargo. In other words, having regard to the circumstances and the clearly dangerous nature of the cargo which required special precaution to be taken for its removal, did the Sunrise Crane owe a duty of care to so inform the Pristine?
The trial judge held that notwithstanding the fact that there was no direct contractual relationship between the appellant and the respondent, the law should still, in the circumstances, impose a duty of care on the appellant to the respondent, ie, to inform the respondent of the nature of the cargo. She agreed that the test to be applied to determine whether a duty arose was that propounded in Caparo Industries Plc v Dickson [1990] 2 AC 605 (“Caparo”). That test consisted of three elements (see [14] below), which in her view were all satisfied in this case.
In coming to her conclusion that the Sunrise Crane owed a duty to inform the Pristine of the nature of the cargo to be transferred, the trial judge also took into account the following documents: In the transportation of chemical products, a common mode of conveying information relating to such cargo is an information sheet entitled above. Its purpose is to let the receiving vessel know the characteristics of the cargo and to warn persons dealing with the product of any danger that might be associated with its use, including fire risk, accidental spillage and procedures for cleaning up. The object of the MSDS is, inter alia, to promote safety. Mr Kashiwagi agreed that the MSDS was one of the most important documents. He admitted that the MSDS for the cargo of nitric acid was received by the Sunrise Crane before the cargo was loaded onto her in Korea. He also admitted that where such a cargo was loaded for the first time, they would insist on the furnishing of a MSDS. Capt Gu Ji Bon, the master of the Sunrise Crane, also acknowledged that the MSDS was an important document and that those who shipped the cargo as well as those who received the cargo should have a copy of it. The International Chamber of Shipping (“ICS”) had promulgated two sets of recommended rules to ensure good practice in the safe operation of vessels. One was the Tanker Safety Guide (“TS Guide”) and the other was the Ship-to-Ship Transfer Guide (Petroleum) (“STS Guide”). Both guides were in their third edition and will be referred to collectively as “the ICS Guides”. More will be said about these guides a little later.
The trial judge held that the Pristine was entitled to a warning from the Sunrise Crane before the discharge of the contaminated cargo. The fact that it was due to Mr Windsor’s default that the Pristine was not apprised of the nature of the cargo did not alter the appellant’s duty to inform.
The trial judge next found that the appellant was not entitled to the benefit of the limitation of liability under the Merchant Shipping Act as the appellant had failed to show that the loss was without its fault or privity. There was no system in place to ensure that the master and crew of the Sunrise Crane would comply with its duty to warn recipients of dangerous goods.
The threefold test enunciated by the House of Lords in Caparo to determine whether, in a given situation, a duty of care arises is as follows: (a) There must be foreseeability of damage; (b) There must be a relationship which can be characterised as one of proximity or neighbourhood; and (c) It must be fair, just and reasonable to impose such a duty.
In a situation like the present, if the contract of removal and disposal had been entered into directly between the appellant and the respondent, there would have been no doubt whatsoever that the appellant would have owed a duty to advise the respondent, both in contract and in tort, of the nature of the cargo which was about to be transferred. The question in the present case was whether the appellant, in view of the very dangerous nature of the cargo, still owed a separate duty to advise the Pristine of the nature of the cargo even though the appellant had informed the contractor, Pink Energy, of the nature of the cargo and it was through the default of the contractor that the information was never passed down to Pristine Maritime and, in turn, the Pristine.
The evidence showed that nitric acid contaminated with hydraulic oil is very dangerous to human beings. Besides being highly corrosive, the fumes it generates are toxic and cancerous, being carcinogenic. The transfer process would require personnel to wear protective gear such as breathing apparatus, masks and gloves.
The appellant argued that while notionally, in a situation like the present, the appellant would owe a duty of care, the appellant could not have reasonably foreseen that damage would arise as it had specifically asked the P&I Club representative to look for a contractor who was licensed to carry such dangerous cargo. Pink Energy was told of the nature of the cargo. The appellant could not have reasonably contemplated that Pink Energy would sub-contract with another without informing the latter of the nature of the cargo resulting in the despatch of a vessel which was not suitable for the purpose.
The appellant relied upon the case of Surtees v Kingston-upon-Thames Borough Council [1991] 2 FLR 559 where the issue was whether the injury suffered by the appellant child was reasonably foreseeable by the second and third respondents, who were the child’s foster parents. Was it foreseeable that a two-year-old child would be able to turn on a hot-water tap? The English Court of Appeal by a majority held that the injury was not reasonably foreseeable because to the respondents, it did not seem possible that the appellant, who was then a two-year-old child, would turn on the hot-water tap. Stocker LJ said that to hold the respondent-foster mother to be in breach of a duty of care would be imposing an unreasonably high standard. However, it was clear that the majority, in coming to that view, had had regard to policy considerations. This appeared from what Sir Nicolas Browne-Wilkinson VC said (at 583): There are very real public policy considerations to be taken into account if the conflicts inherent in legal proceedings are to be brought into family relationships. Moreover, the responsibilities of a parent … looking after one or more children, in addition to the myriad other duties which fall on the parent at home, far exceed those of other members of society.
It seemed to us the position taken by the appellant was that in a situation such as the present, no duty of care would arise because the appellant would be entitled to assume that Pink Energy would have discharged its contractual duties of providing a barge which was in a position to remove the contaminated nitric acid, and thus the damage which arose was wholly unforeseeable. In this regard, the appellant further relied on the case of Hodge & Sons v Anglo-American Oil Company (1922) 12 Ll L Rep 183 (“Hodge”) where a serious explosion on a petroleum barge caused the death of a number of workmen. Others were injured. The barge-owner had contracted with a ship repairer, Miller, to undertake some work on the barge, involving the lifting out of a tank. Miller, in turn, sub-contracted the work to Hodge. Earlier on the fateful day, Miller had informed Hodge that the barge was on its way to the latter’s wharf. A lighterman employed by the owner brought the barge into Hodge’s wharf. Within 30 minutes, the foreman of Hodge commenced work on the barge’s tank with an oxy-acetylene burner before it was free of petrol vapour. An explosion occurred. Hodge sued the owner of the barge for property damage caused by the occasion. Willmott, an employee of Hodge and who was also injured, sued the barge-owner too. However, there was one important fact in that case which made all the difference. The lighterman on arrival at Hodge’s wharf had informed Hodge’s foreman, when he saw the oxy-acetylene burner being brought to the barge, not to use the oxy-acetylene burner until the tanker had been properly ventilated. The Court of Appeal unanimously dismissed the claim of Hodge. However, by a majority, it also held that the barge-owner was not liable to Willmott for not informing him of the dangerous nature of the barge. Bankes LJ observed (at 184–185): The Anglo-American Oil Co were, in my opinion, under a double duty, (a) the duty of using reasonable means for securing the efficient cleaning out of the tank, and (b) the duty of giving any necessary warning of the dangerous character of the tank even after a proper and sufficient cleaning. … With regard to the second duty, a warning would not, in my opinion, be required where the person who would otherwise be entitled to warning was already aware of the danger, or who might reasonably be assumed to be aware of it. … [I]f a warning was needed it was sufficiently given by the notice painted on the barge itself, and by the warning given by the lighterman who brought the barge to Messrs Hodge’s wharf …
Next, it is also pertinent to note what Scrutton LJ summarised to be the law on the point. First, (at 187), he referred to the case of Dominion Natural Gas Co, Ld v Collins [1909] AC 646 where Lord Dunedin said: What that duty is will vary according to the subject-matter of the things involved. It has, however, again and again been held that in the case of articles dangerous in themselves, such as loaded firearms, poisons, explosives, and other things ejusdem generis, there is a peculiar duty to take precaution imposed upon those who send forth or instal [sic] such articles when it is necessarily the case that other parties will come within their proximity. He then went on to hold (also at 187) that: In the case of things dangerous in themselves the supplier or circulator is liable to persons with whom he has no contract for damages which they could not avoid by reasonable care; but if he warns them of the danger, or the danger is obvious, so that they need no warning, he is not liable because they could avoid the danger by reasonable care. … The duty is to warn of dangers not obvious to a reasonably careful person.
Finally, Scrutton LJ opined that the law which should apply to the case was as follows (at 188): The law, therefore, seems to be: (1) That if the barge which has carried petrol is an article dangerous in itself, it is the duty of the owners to take proper and reasonable precautions to prevent its doing damage to people likely to come into contact with it. These precautions may be fulfilled by entrusting it to a competent person with reasonable warning of its dangerous character, if that danger is not obvious. If such precautions are not taken, the owner will be liable to third persons with whom he has no contract for damage done by the barge, which they could not have avoided with reasonable care. (2) If the barge which has carried petrol is not dangerous in itself, but becomes dangerous because it has been insufficiently cleaned, and the owner is ignorant of the danger, the owner is not liable for damage caused by it to persons with whom he has no contract. … (3) In the case of a thing dangerous in itself, where either the danger is obvious or the owner has given proper warning to the person entrusted with it, not being his servant, the owner is not liable for negligence of such person causing injury to a third party; such negligence is nova causa interveniens.
Scrutton LJ further found (at 189), in relation to the facts of the case before him, that: It appears to me that Miller, Hodges and Bennett had ample knowledge and warning that the barge was dangerous, and that after hatches had been closed for some unknown time lights might not be used on the barge without tests or other precautions. For the owners to hand a dangerous barge to competent people who had full knowledge of the probability of danger, even if they did not know the exact amount of it, appears to me to involve no further liability on the owners. If those competent people with knowledge are then negligent, that is, in my view, a new intervening cause, which may impose liability on the interveners, but breaks the chain of liability on the owners.
The facts in our present case were not similar to those in Hodge. Both Bankes and Scrutton LJJ observed that there was ample knowledge on the part of Hodge and Miller that the barge was dangerous: there was a notice painted on the barge itself and in addition, the lighterman of the barge did warn Hodge’s foreman not to use the oxy-acetylene burner until the tanker had been properly ventilated. There was absolutely no similar warning given by the crew of the Sunrise Crane to the Pristine. In fact, we note that the crew of the Pristine did ask the crew of the Sunrise Crane for a sample of the cargo that was going to be discharged into the Pristine but this request was turned down by the crew of the Sunrise Crane.
The ultimate question that has to be answered is what was the degree or scope of care which a person in the shoes of the appellant should exercise. Lord Atkin put it well in Donoghue v Stevenson [1932] AC 562 in these words (at 596): The nature of the thing may very well call for different degrees of care, and the person dealing with it may well contemplate persons as being within the sphere of his duty to take care who would not be sufficiently proximate with less dangerous goods; so that not only the degree of care but the range of persons to whom a duty is owed may be extended. But they all illustrate the general principle. [emphasis added]
It is obvious that the law expects a person who carries a pound of dynamite to exercise more care than if he is only carrying a pound of butter, or putting it another way, to exercise more care with a bottle of poison than a bottle of lemonade: see Beckett v Newalls Insulation Co Ld [1953] 1 WLR 8 . What is adequate for one set of circumstances may not be so in relation to a different set of circumstances. It stands to reason that more care must be exercised where a highly dangerous substance is involved.
It seemed to us that this was very much in the thought of Lord Roskill in Caparo when he said (at 628): [I]t has now to be accepted that there is no simple formula or touchstone to which recourse can be had in order to provide in every case a ready answer to the questions whether, given certain facts, the law will or will not impose liability for negligence or in cases where such liability can be shown to exist, determine the extent of that liability. Phrases such as “foreseeability”, “proximity”, “neighbourhood,” “just and reasonable,” “fairness,” “voluntary acceptance of risk,” or “voluntary assumption of responsibility” will be found used from time to time in the different cases. But, as your Lordships have said, such phrases are not precise definitions. At best they are but labels or phrases descriptive of the very different factual situations which can exist in particular cases and which must be carefully examined in each case before it can be pragmatically determined whether a duty of care exists and, if so, what is the scope and extent of that duty.
In this regard, the following finding of the judge was germane to the question of whether the appellant still owed a duty of care at the time the transfer was effected (at [31]): On the overall evidence before me, I find that Captain Gill [and hence in our view the appellant] knew that someone else [and not Pink Energy] would undertake the actual collection and disposal of the contaminated nitric acid. After the disposal contract was awarded to Pink Energy, the [appellant] knew the identity of the receiving vessel. The [appellant was] provided with certain information. [It was] given, in particular, the name of the receiving vessel, her registration No SB411J, the VHF channel for radio communication between Sunrise Crane and Pristine and the coordinates at OPL for the two vessels to rendezvous the night of 7 March 2001.
The appellant was in the business of transporting dangerous goods. The respondent was not. In our opinion, the judge was correct to hold that carriers like the appellant should not take for granted (a) their own common knowledge or assumptions about safety in the transportation of chemicals and (b) that their contractor, Pink Energy, who would not be the one actually carrying out the task, would properly discharge its contractual duties. Mr Windsor had, in fact, asked Capt Gill for a fax confirmation of the disposal assignment, but Capt Gill said that he was too busy to attend to it. The judge’s observation on this at [38] was most apt: “With a verbal contract, the opportunity for mistakes occurring is not so remote.”
Thus, the following features of the present case were critical. First, the cargo to be transferred was highly dangerous and toxic. Second, the appellant knew that Pink Energy would not be the party removing the cargo. Third, there was no written communication between the appellant (or Capt Gill) and Pink Energy as to the nature of the cargo and the request for one by Pink Energy was not acceded to. Fourth, the appellant’s and the respondent’s vessels were in close proximity to each other when the transfer was carried out. Fifth, the appellant, being in the business of transporting dangerous chemicals, would have appreciated the dire consequences if nitric acid were to be transferred to a vessel not built for receiving such a substance. Sixth, the practice of the Sunrise Crane of asking for a MSDS in relation to the first-time shipment of a particular chemical, illustrated the need for special care in regard to the shipment of chemicals, particularly chemicals of the nature of nitric acid. Seventh, the crew of the Pristine had asked for a sample of the slops but this was not provided to them by the crew of the Sunrise Crane. Eighth, there was evidence to suggest that during the transfer of the contaminated cargo, the crew of the Pristine were without protective gear because after the transfer was effected and smoke appeared, the cargo officer of the Pristine had requested for the loan of some gas masks from the Sunrise Crane to enable the crew of the Pristine to close its manholes. Moreover, even with the borrowed gas masks, the crew of the Pristine refused to reboard the barge to close the manholes. This emerged from the evidence of the master of the Sunrise Crane, Capt Gu.
In relation to ordinary or less dangerous chemicals, an advice to the main contractor could perhaps suffice. But, in our judgment, having regard to the circumstances of the present case, and the fact that a very dangerous substance was involved, more care should have been exercised by the Sunrise Crane. In a sense, this is not unlike the situation where an employer is nevertheless liable for the acts of an independent contractor where the acts involved special dangers to others. Accordingly, we agreed with the trial judge’s determination.
The appellant placed considerable reliance on the views expressed by this court in Man B&W Diesel S E Asia Pte Ltd v PT Bumi International Tankers [2004] 2 SLR 300 (“Bumi”) where it stated (at [34]): We also acknowledge that the Donoghue principle is not a statutory definition. Its application has not remained static. It is evolving. It offers an avenue of redress for losses suffered by a person on account of the acts or omission of another, where such losses would otherwise be without a remedy.
It is, however, also important to note what the court there stated in the next sentence: While we would not say that for every subsequent case to fall within the scope of the decision in Ocean Front [ie, RSP Architects Planners & Engineers v Ocean Front Pte Ltd [1996] 1 SLR 113 ], the facts must be identical or the same, extreme caution must be exercised in extending the Donoghue principle, or the decision in Ocean Front, to new situations, particularly to a scenario which is essentially contractual.
The remarks quoted above of this court were made in relation to its decision in the Ocean Front. In Ocean Front, this court broke new ground when it held that the developer of a condominium was liable in tort for non-personal injury losses suffered by the management corporation of the development. In coming to that conclusion, the court took into account, inter alia, the scheme of things laid down in the Land Titles (Strata) Act (Cap 158, 1988 Rev Ed) and the role of the management corporation in a condominium development. It was in that statutory context that the court found that the developer owed a duty of care to the management corporation even though there was no actual privity of contract between the two.
Reverting to this court’s observations in Bumi quoted above, while it is true that the law of tort offers an avenue of redress for losses suffered by a person where such losses would otherwise be without a remedy, it does not conversely mean that remedies in tort become automatically unavailable simply because the plaintiff has a remedy in contract against another party. To conflate the two would be to ignore the fundamental difference between contract and tort. Tortious duties are primarily fixed by law while contractual duties are based on the consent of the parties.
More importantly, there is a fundamental difference between the claim in the present action and that in Bumi. Here, the claim was for direct physical damage to property; there was no attempt to extend the Donoghue principle to a new situation. In Bumi, it was for pure consequential economic losses and there the shipowner and the contractor had by contract expressly provided for the remedies which would be available in the event that the vessel (and its engine) did not perform up to specifications. And that, in fact, happened. However, the engine was provided to the contractor by a sub-contractor. The court there held that the plaintiff was not entitled to claim in tort against the sub-contractor for the pure economic losses.
It is clear that the law does differentiate between a claim in pure economic loss and that for personal injuries or physical damage. In respect of the former, the law is more restrictive in imposing a duty of care. The rationale for this is expressed very eloquently by the authors of Clerk and Lindsell on Torts (18th Ed, 2000) as follows (at para 7-85): Three features distinguish economic loss claims from most physical damage claims. First, whilst the links between negligence and physical damage depend largely on the laws of nature and necessarily limit the type of relationship giving rise to a claim, those between negligence and pure economic loss are primarily human in creation and can form a complex web through which economic losses can ripple out from the one negligent act. Secondly, because the economic relationships are frequently created rather than imposed, the participants in the web have a greater opportunity to use contracts to determine the level of risk to be taken and the degree of protection from loss required. … Thirdly, as Hobhouse LJ has observed, “in a competitive economic society the conduct of one person is always liable to have economic consequences for another and, in principle, economic activity does not have to have regard to the interests of others and is justifiable by the actor having regard to his own interests alone”. Furthermore, as McHugh J has noted, “pure economic losses frequently result in mere transfers of wealth. The plaintiff’s loss is the defendant’s or a third party’s gain”, whereas “harm to a person or property ordinarily involves a new loss to social wealth.” These features have led the courts to take a more restrictive approach to the imposition of a duty of care in relation to economic loss than in relation to physical damage.
Thus, the approach taken in Bumi can have no application to the present action which came very much within the traditional mould of a claim in negligence where direct property damage was caused. The only question was whether the owner of the Sunrise Crane had fulfilled its duty of care by merely engaging Pink Energy to remove the cargo and telling Pink Energy of the nature of the cargo. For the reasons given in [29] and [30] above, we did not think so.
While it is true that in Mohd bin Sapri v Soil-Build (Pte) Ltd [1996] 2 SLR 505 (“Soil-Build”), a personal injury case, this court adopted the threefold test propounded in Caparo, a case involving economic loss, it should not therefore follow that both types of cases stood exactly on the same footing. While the applicable test may be the same, the question whether in a given situation a duty of care arises, and the scope of the duty, must necessarily depend on all the circumstances. Here, again, we would reiterate what Lord Roskill said in Caparo quoted in [26] above.
In Soil-Build, this court held that the owner and main contractor were not liable to a worker of a sub-contractor who was injured in the course of work. There was nothing inherently dangerous in what the worker was to do. The injured worker fell from a height because of an unsafe method of work which he and his fellow workers had adopted.
The appellant also relied upon Kubach v Hollands [1936] 3 All ER 907, Holmes v Ashford [1950] 2 All ER 76 and Norton Australia Pty Limited v Streets Ice Cream Pty Limited (1968) 120 CLR 635 to submit that notifying an intermediary of the risk is sufficient. We did not think these cases were helpful as they were clearly distinguishable. They did not involve ships transferring hazardous goods. In those cases, it was envisaged that the goods would physically pass from the manufacturer, through the intermediary, and eventually to the end user. A similar factual matrix could not be found in the present appeal. The highly hazardous cargo was directly transferred from the Sunrise Crane to the Pristine and the appellant had envisaged, right from the beginning, that there would be such a direct transfer onto a barge which would be coming to collect the highly hazardous contaminated cargo.
We did not think that in imposing a duty of care in the circumstances here, we had adopted an unreasonably high standard. Neither did we think it was unfair or unjust to impose such a duty. A higher standard of care was necessary because of the highly hazardous nature of the cargo and the appellant was aware that the actual licensed contractor who would be removing the cargo would not be Pink Energy but someone else. There was no way the Pristine could have known that the cargo was contaminated nitric acid. Indeed, Pristine’s request for a sample of the cargo was turned down.
We now turn to the ICS Guides. The appellant alleged that the judge was wrong to have relied on them because none of the witnesses were questioned as to their applicability. Furthermore, the appellant submitted that if the ICS Guides could properly apply, then its provisions should apply to both vessels.
However, we must point out that it was the appellant who first introduced the TS Guide into the proceedings in its closing submission at the trial to substantiate what it alleged to be the meaning of “slops”. As the appellant produced only a part of this Guide, which was helpful to the point it was trying to make, the respondent placed the entire document before the court. The respondent relied upon the parts of the TS Guide which had a bearing on the question of limitation of liability. It should also be noted that the TS Guide has references to the STS Guide. An example of such a cross-referencing can be found at para 5.14.1 of the TS Guide, which reads: Navigational and ship handling aspects of an STS operation between chemical carriers will be very similar to those of an STS operation between oil tankers, as described in the ICS/OCIMF publication Ship to Ship Transfer Guide (Petroleum), which should be consulted ...
The appellant in reply had objected to the respondent’s reliance on the TS Guide. This was rebutted by the respondent who argued that the court should be entitled to see what the entire document contained; it was not for the appellant to pick and choose what the court could see. It stands to reason that as the appellant had relied on a part of the ICS Guides to substantiate its case, it should have no reason to object to another part of the ICS Guides being relied upon by the opponent to show global industry practices or standards.
The ICS is the international trade association for merchant ship operators and its membership comprises national shipowners’ associations representing over half of the world’s merchant fleet. The preface to the TS Guide states: The purpose of this publication is to provide those serving on ships carrying hazardous and noxious chemicals in bulk with up to date information on recognised good practice in safe operation. … The recommendations cannot cover every possible situation that may be encountered on a chemical tanker, but they do provide wide general guidance on safe procedures and safe working practices when handling and transporting chemicals in bulk … The Guide deals primarily with operational matters and good safety practices. ... IMPORTANT NOTE It is emphasised that this Guide is meant to complement, not supersede, any company safety and operational guidelines or ship emergency plans, including safety management procedures required by the IMO International Safety Management (ISM) Code. Paragraph 1.1 of the TS Guide states: Chemical tankers are required to transport a wide range of different cargoes, and many tankers are designed to carry a large number of segregated products simultaneously. The operation of chemical tankers differs from any other bulk liquid transportation operations, in that on a single voyage a large number of cargoes with different properties, characteristics and inherent hazards may be carried. Moreover, in port several products may be handled simultaneously at one berth, typically including different operations such as discharge and loading as well as tank cleaning. Even the less sophisticated chemical tankers are more complex to operate than oil tankers. Paragraph 2.2 of the TS Guide goes on to state in no uncertain terms: The IMO Codes require that certain information must be available on board the ship for each particular cargo, and prior to loading. … It is the shipper’s responsibility to provide the necessary information, which may be given in the form of a cargo information form or data sheet for each cargo. Loading should not commence before the master is satisfied that the necessary information for safe handling of the cargo is available to the personnel involved.
The reference to the ICS Guides made by the judge was only to show that the practice of the Sunrise Crane of requiring the furnishing of a MSDS whenever it was the first time a cargo of that particular chemical was being shipped on board, was completely in line with the safety practices adopted by the industry as a whole. She said at [40]: The duty to inform the receiver of the dangerous nature of the goods is not foreign to the chemical tankers in the industry. Such disclosure is very much part of and inherent in the basic safety procedures and work practices of chemical tankers in the industry. The ICS Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals), (3rd Ed, 2000) which is intended as a guide to complement and not replace a shipowner’s own safety or operational guidelines for chemical tankers sets out the reasonable steps the recipient of chemical cargo [is] to take once the information on the cargo is received. The section on ship-to-ship transfer contains a checklist to ensure compatibility of ships and their cargo handling equipment. It provides that when preparing for a ship-to-ship transfer, the two masters involved should agree at the earliest opportunity on every aspect of the transfer procedure. The guide also provides that the cargo operation should be planned and agreed between the two ships. The same safety measures for handling cargo should be observed when handling slops or contaminated cargo for disposal.
Taking the recommendations in the ICS Guides into account, which required the appellant to inform the Pristine of the nature of the cargo when the transfer was about to begin, all the more the acts of the appellant fell short of the standard of care required of it.
Turning next to the test of proximity. In numerous cases, many attempts were made to elucidate this concept as applied in different circumstances. We think it would be expedient to revert back to basics, the very seminal pronouncement of Lord Atkin in Donoghue v Stevenson [1932] AC 562 at 580 where he said: Who, then, in law is my neighbour? The answer seems to be – persons who are so closely and directly affected by my act that I ought reasonably to have them in contemplation as being so affected when I am directing my mind to the acts or omissions which are called in question.
This statement of Lord Atkin was further elucidated by Deane J in the Australian High Court in the case of Sutherland Shire Council v Heyman (1985) 60 ALR 1 at 55 as follows: It involves the notion of nearness or closeness and embraces physical proximity (in the sense of space and time) between the person or property of the plaintiff and the person or property of the defendant, circumstantial proximity such as an overriding relationship of employer and employee or of a professional man and his client and what may (perhaps loosely) be referred to as causal proximity in the sense of the closeness or directness of the causal connection or relationship between the particular act or course of conduct and the loss or injury sustained. It may reflect an assumption by one party of a responsibility to take care to avoid or prevent injury, loss or damage to the person or property of another or reliance by one party upon such care being taken by the other in circumstances where the other party knew or ought to have known of that reliance. Both the identity and the relative importance of the factors which are determinative of an issue of proximity are likely to vary in different categories of case.
Plainly, the position of the appellant’s vessel and the respondent’s tanker was as proximate as could conceivably be. The two vessels were moored alongside and, through hoses, the contaminated nitric acid was discharged into a tank of the Pristine. The situation here could hardly be any different from the case where there was a collision between two vessels, causing physical damage to either or both vessels. It was beyond argument that the act of transferring the contaminated cargo from the Sunrise Crane to the Pristine was an act which directly affected the respondent.
Finally, we would like to state that we have seen in draft the dissenting opinion of Prakash J where she dealt with the question why the limitation of liability prescribed in s 136 of the Merchant Shipping Act was not available to the appellant in this case. We agree with what she has stated and do not wish to add anything more.