This is an appeal from a decision of Woo Bih Li J in which he dismissed Originating Summons No 825 of 2004 on the grounds that the claims there were barred by issue estoppel arising out of the judgment of Punch Coomaraswamy J in Management Corp of Grange Heights – Strata Title No 301 v Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd [1990] SLR 1193 and the judgment of Goh Joon Seng J delivered for the Court of Appeal in Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd v Management Corporation of Grange Heights Strata Title No 301 [1992] 2 SLR 865. The previous proceedings were commenced in 1989 and they are, for convenience, hereinafter referred to as “the 1989 proceedings”.
Agreeing with Woo J, we dismissed the appeal. In our judgment, issue estoppel arises because the precise issue in this appeal, which is whether the residents of Grange Heights have a right of way over Lot 111-31 to gain access to and from Grange Road, has been finally and conclusively determined on the merits by courts of competent jurisdiction in the 1989 proceedings.
The facts are set out in the judgment of Woo J reported in [2004] 4 SLR 828 and for present purposes they can be restated quite briefly. It is also convenient to refer to previous proceedings on the same topic to make the history and the point of this appeal intelligible.
The subject matter of the present appeal concerns the right of way over Lot 111-31 (the servient tenement) granted to the respective owners of Lots 111-32 and 111-33 and the former Lot 111-34. All lots are situated in the Orchard Road vicinity.
The appellant, Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd (“Lee Tat”), formerly known as Collin Development (Pte) Ltd, is the owner of dominant tenements Lots 111-32 and 111-33. In January 1997, the appellant purchased the servient tenement subject to easements and rights affecting it. The dominant tenement, Lot 111-34, was amalgamated with Lot 561 (which was sub-divided from Lot 122) to create a new Lot 687. Hong Leong Holdings Ltd (“Hong Leong”) was the developer of the condominium known as Grange Heights. Grange Heights was built on Lot 687. Standing on the former Lot 561 are three blocks of high-rise apartments comprising a total of 120 units, car parks, swimming pool and other facilities. The tennis courts and changing rooms stand on the former Lot 111-34. The respondent in this appeal is the Management Corporation of Grange Heights (“the MCST”). For ease of reference, appended to this judgment, as Appendix 1, is a sketch (not drawn to scale) depicting the dominant tenements in relation to the servient tenement and the former Lot 561.
There has been a history of clashes between the appellant and Hong Leong over the right of way in connection with the development of Grange Heights. On one occasion, the appellant tried without success to stymie the development carrying and using the address nos 15, 19 and 23 Grange Road. The relevant authorities rejected the appellant’s objections.
In the very first suit in 1976, Collin Development (Pte) Ltd v Hong Leong Holdings Ltd [1975–1977] SLR 457, Collin Development (Pte) Ltd (“Collin Development”), as owner of Lots 111-32 and 111-33, claimed for a declaration that Hong Leong, as owner of Lots 561 and 111-34, and its directors, officers, servants, workmen or agents and prospective or future residents of Grange Heights were not entitled to use Lot 111-31. The complaints then were that Hong Leong had, inter alia, permitted its contractors employed for the construction of Grange Heights to use the right of way for access to and egress from Lot 561. F A Chua J (as he then was) held that Collin Development had no cause of action, as it was unable to prove that Hong Leong and the prospective or future residents of Grange Heights had substantially interfered or would substantially interfere with Collin Development’s enjoyment of the right of way over Lot 111-31. Hong Leong’s counterclaim for a declaration that the company and its authorised persons were entitled to pass and repass Lot 111-31 was dismissed as Collin Development was not the owner of Lot 111-31. As an aside, Woo J did not agree with Chua J’s reasoning for the dismissal of the counterclaim. No analysis of this first case is required as there was no cross-appeal by the respondent on Woo J’s ruling that the judgment of Chua J, which was affirmed on appeal, did not give rise to any issue estoppel to bar the current proceedings from being re-litigated.
About 13 years later, a second suit (ie, the 1989 proceedings) was launched. Lee Tat erected an iron gate and fence on Lot 111-31 thus preventing the residents of Grange Heights from using Lot 111-31. This time, however, there was no complaint of excessive use of Lot 111-31 by the residents of Grange Heights. It was simply an issue of the respective parties’ rights over Lot 111-31. This is an important point to note and we will elaborate on it later. It was also not disputed that Lee Tat was aware that the residents of Grange Heights had been using Lot 111-31 since the completion of Grange Heights in 1976. Initially, the MCST obtained an interim injunction against Lee Tat for interfering with its right of way over Lot 111-31 and the latter applied for the interim injunction to be discharged.
The application to discharge the interim injunction and the MCST’s originating summons were heard together on 5 December 1990. Coomaraswamy J granted the MCST an injunction as sought in the originating summons. Lee Tat was also ordered to remove the iron gate and fence across Lot 111-31. The court held that although Lots 561 and 111-34 had been amalgamated into Lot 687, it was purely for purposes of survey and issue of documents of title. The easement over Lot 111-31 still ran with the land and enured to the benefit of the owner of Lot 111-34, now part of Lot 687. It was common ground that the MCST was the owner of Lot 111-34.
Lee Tat appealed and the Court of Appeal in upheld the first instance decision and reiterated that upon amalgamation of the plots of land, the dominant tenement did not cease to exist, nor was the right of way appurtenant thereto extinguished. So long as the user on the servient tenement was not excessive, the amalgamation did not affect the existence of the right of way. The Court of Appeal found that the residents of Grange Heights had, since 1976, only been using Lot 111-31 as a foot path and they were allowed to continue this activity. Lee Tat was not entitled to erect the gate and fence.
The current set of proceedings instituted on 26 June 2004 is the third time the parties have gone to court on account of the same easement. We need to only look at the multiple declarations and injunction sought by Lee Tat in Originating Summons No 825 of 2004 to see its motivation, which is to stop the residents of Grange Heights from using the easement. They are: (a) a declaration that the grant of easement in favour of, inter alia, Lot 111-34 was not intended to be made appurtenant to Lot 122 (later Lot 561 and now Lot 687); (b) a declaration that the amalgamation of Lot 111-34 with Lot 122 (later Lot 561) to form Lot 687 did not result in the conferment of any easement rights to Lot 561 and Lot 687, being land other than the dominant tenement (Lot 111-34). (c) a declaration that the right of way over Lot 111-31 shall not be used as an access to Lot 687;= (d) a permanent injunction to prohibit all the owners, residents, occupants and/or visitors of the apartments in the condominium known as Grange Heights from using any part of Lot 111-31 to access Grange Heights from Grange Road and vice versa absolutely and indefinitely; (e) an order directing the Registrar of Titles and Deeds to expunge any and all entries, notices and registration of any easements or orders of court registered against Lot 111-31 in the Index to Land Books in the Registry of Deeds and Land Register comprised in Certificate of Title Vol 464 Folio 159; (f) further and/or alternatively, a declaratory order that all the owners, residents, occupants and/or visitors of the apartments in the condominium known as Grange Heights are not entitled to use any part of Lot 111-31 to access Grange Heights from Grange Road absolutely and indefinitely.
Counsel for the appellant, Mr Tan Cheng Han SC, argues against issue estoppel. This is how Mr Tan has characterised the issue so that there is no issue estoppel. The easement is in respect of Lot 111-31 and on the principle enunciated in Harris v Flowerand Sons (1904) 91 LT 816 (“Harris v Flower”), which principle is discussed in detail in Chao Hick Tin JA’s dissenting judgment at [52] to [62] below, the MCST cannot use the easement in respect of Lot 561. Such user beyond the geographical scope of the express grant is improper and amounts to trespass on the servient tenement. On this occasion, the appellant has sued as the owner of the servient tenement. The elements required for the present cause of action are different from the previous cause of action. In the 1989 proceedings, the appellant was the owner of the dominant tenements and its rights were limited. In an action for substantial interference with a dominant tenement’s right of way, the key question is whether the easement is being used in such a manner as to substantially interfere with the applicant’s legitimate user of the easement. Counsel has referred us to a number of cases where the Harris v Flower principle was followed. In particular, he relies on Re Gordon and Regan (1985) 15 DLR (4th) 641, a decision of the Ontario High Court, to underscore and drive home his point that the respondent would still offend the principle in Harris v Flower if the improper use of the servient tenement was minimal. This is because such user is outside the terms of the original grant and hence unauthorised.
What is relied on here by the MCST is a previous decision on a particular issue or issues. Counsel for the respondent, Mr Edwin Lee, argues that in the 1989 proceedings, Harris v Flower was relied upon by Lee Tat for the argument that the MCST was not entitled to use Lot 111-31 as a right of way for the residents to gain access from their apartments at Lot 561 to Grange Road and vice versa and that the point was decided by the court. Mr Tan submits that the record of the judgments relied on did not mention Harris v Flower and the silence of the High Court and the Court of Appeal in the 1989 proceedings might indicate that the court made no decision on the point at all. If that were the case, then there would hardly be a previous decision which could blight the chances of there being fresh proceedings. Separately and in response to Mr Tan’s contention that the only party with locus standi to advance the Harris v Flower principle is the owner of the servient tenement, Mr Lee drew our attention to Re Gordon and Regan, the very case relied upon by Mr Tan. In that case, the respondents, who were objecting to the user as placing an added burden on the right of way by extending the use of that right of way to the owner and occupants of the newly-created semi-detached house to access the nearby garage on land adjoining the dominant tenement, did not own the servient tenement, but were owners of the dominant tenement. The Ontario High Court agreed with the respondents and found in their favour. We also note that none of the cases cited by Lee Tat stood for the proposition that a dominant tenement owner could never question the inappropriate scope of use of the right of way by a fellow dominant tenement owner. Accordingly, we reject the appellant’s locus standi argument.
A convenient starting point is to ascertain what is required of an issue estoppel and then determine whether the requirements are fulfilled. First of all, there needs to be a final and conclusive judgment on the merits. The judgments relied upon were those in the 1989 proceedings. That would seem to be satisfied. Secondly, that judgment has to be by a court of competent jurisdiction. Again, that would seem to be satisfied. Then there has to be identity between the parties to the two actions that are being compared. Again, that is satisfied here. The reality is that the effective parties are the same. The same parties in both actions have either sued or defended claims in their own right (ie, personal capacity as opposed to representative capacity) and that did not change even though the cause of action in the earlier proceedings was not identical with the cause of action in the present proceedings. In our judgment, the difference between the available remedies is one of the factors to establish whether there is a difference in causes of action. The present case is not about cause of action estoppel and it was not put forward as such at the appeal. This court in Official Assignee of the estate of Tang Hsiu Lan, a bankrupt and Pua Ai Seok [2001] 2 SLR 436 at [20], following Arnold v National Westminster Bank Plc [1991] 2 AC 93 , held: Issue estoppel may arise where a particular issue forming a necessary ingredient in a cause of action has been litigated and decided and in subsequent proceedings between the same parties involving a different cause of action, to which the same issue is relevant, one of the parties seeks to re-open that issue.
The final requirement is that there must be an identity of subject matter in the two proceedings. The correct approach to identify the issue is to ask what had been litigated and, secondly, what had been decided. In the case of issue estoppel, the decision on the issue must have been a “necessary step” to the decision or a “matter which it was necessary to decide, and which was actually decided, as the groundwork of the decision”: see Carl Zeiss Stiftung v Rayner & Keeler Ltd (No 2) [1967] 1 AC 853 at 965 per Lord Wilberforce quoting from R v The Inhabitants of the Township of Hartington Middle Quarter (1855) 4 El & Bl 780 at 794; 119 ER 288 at 293.
What it comes to is that in our judgment there is the necessary identity of subject matter between the two proceedings such as of itself leads to issue estoppel. We are of the view that the change in status of Lee Tat from owner of two dominant tenements in the previous proceedings to owner of the servient tenement in this current action makes no difference to the rights of the MCST (and hence the residents of Grange Heights) over the servient tenement which were decided in the 1989 proceedings. It was decided in the 1989 proceedings that it was lawful for the residents of Grange Heights to use the servient tenement as a foot path to access Grange Road and vice versa. Coomaraswamy J held the right of way ran with the dominant tenement even though it had become part of a larger plot of land. The easement continued depite the amalgamation and enured to the benefit of the MCST (and hence the residents of Grange Heights). The ruling was necessary and essential to the High Court’s decision that Lee Tat was not entitled to erect the iron gate and fence. We give no credence to the appellant’s assertion that the MCST’s rights were irrelevant to Coomaraswamy J’s decision, and that the judge had confined his decision to the finding that Lee Tat was only entitled to complain of any substantial interference with its enjoyment of the right of way.
The ruling roundly rejected Lee Tat’s contention that: (a) the amalgamation of Lot 111-34 with Lot 561 into Lot 687 extinguished the plaintiffs’ right of way over Lot 111-31; and (b) as all the apartments in Grange Heights stand on Lot 561, the residents therefore are not using Lot 111-31 as a right of way for the dominant tenement which is Lot 111-34 but for Lot 561, and this the plaintiffs are not entitled to do. The complaint in contention (b) was that the MCST had extended the right of way to non-dominant land. The MCST could not enforce the right of way with the condominium built on the amalgamated plots. From the other corner, the MCST’s claim was for the benefit of the easement for the whole condominium. As stated earlier, in the 1989 proceedings, there was no complaint of excessive use of Lot 111-31 by the residents of Grange Heights. The dispute was simply an issue of the respective parties’ rights over Lot 111-31. The complaint then was identical to the complaint before Woo J. Woo J characterised the issue before him in this way: Whether the residents of Grange Heights could use the right of way on Lot 111-31 for the benefit of not only the dominant land, Lot 111-34, but also the adjoining non-dominant land, Lot 561. It is clearly part of the subject matter of the present proceedings as it was an issue that was so clearly part of the subject matter of the 1989 proceedings.
By Coomaraswamy J’s restraining order of 5 December 1990 (and affirmed by the Court of Appeal), the residents of Grange Heights, through the MCST, were entitled to an unobstructed use of the right of way to get from Lot 111-34 to Lot 561 and vice versa. The incontrovertible effect of the High Court’s decision is reinforced as one reads on to the undertaking given on 17 December 1997 by Ching Mun Fong (“Ching”), a director of the appellant, on behalf of Lee Tat, which conveyed the clear message that residents of Grange Heights using the servient tenement would not be trespassing. Sometime in 1997, Lee Tat placed a chain across the Grange Road end of the servient tenement. The MCST took out committal proceedings. The undertaking to the court was in the following terms: The MC of Grange Heights are at liberty to send a notice to all residents of Grange Heights that they have a right of way over Lot 111-31 and that the sign against trespassers does not apply to them.
It is to be noted, as did Woo J, that at the time the undertaking was given, Lee Tat was already the owner of the servient tenements, having purchased it in January 1997. Lee Tat took no further legal action soon after 17 December 1997 despite the express reservation that the undertaking did not prohibit Lee Tat from commencing any legal action as it may be advised.
Some one and a half years later, Lee Tat was back in court again in July 1999 for contempt of the order of 5 December 1990. On that occasion, it had affixed a low chain across the right of way. Tay Yong Kwang JC (as he then was) held Lee Tat to be guilty of contempt of court and ordered Ching, as director of Lee Tat, to pay a fine of $3,000 and the MCST’s costs fixed at $10,000. Tay JC was satisfied that Lee Tat had disobeyed the Order of Court dated 5 December 1990 which, inter alia, restrained Lee Tat and its officers from preventing or interfering with the exercise of the right of way of the MCST over the servient tenement.
Another four years later, fresh committal proceedings were again brought against Lee Tat and Ching for breach of the order of 5 December 1990. This time, the appellant had erected two concrete cones to block the right of way. The contempt was purged before the date of the hearing. Lee Tat and Ching were nonetheless ordered on 26 March 2004 to be jointly and severally liable to pay the MCST costs on an indemnity basis fixed at $13,000.
Reverting to the judgment of Goh J in Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd v Management Corporation of Grange Heights Strata Title No 301 ([1] supra) in which Graham v Philcox [1984] QB 747 was referred to, a right of way in that case was granted to the upper flat in a coach house. Counsel for the defendants, Mr Gerald Godfrey QC, submitted that in enlarging the physical dimensions or in altering the nature of the dominant tenement by turning two individual flats into one dwelling house, the plaintiffs could no longer use that right of way, either because the benefit for which the right of way was originally granted was different or it was lost because the alteration had increased the burden of the use on the servient tenement. Mr Godfrey cited Harris v Flower in his submissions.
The English Court of Appeal rejected Mr Godfrey’s submissions. May LJ said that Harris v Flower must be considered in the context of the facts of that particular case. Harris v Flower involved enlargement of the easement but did not suggest that the enlargement of the dominant tenement would extinguish the easement. The appellate court held that the mere alteration of the coach house from two flats into one dwelling could not have any effect on the existence of the right of way appurtenant to the first floor flat of the coach house which survived the alteration, nor could the alteration affect the entitlement to its use. However, the overriding consideration was that the character and extent of the burden imposed on the servient tenement must not be enlarged and on the facts it was not enlarged based on a reasonable user of the easement.
It was in this context that the Court of Appeal in the 1989 proceedings considered whether actual or anticipated user by the respondent of the way was in any way excessive, either in quantity or quality. The Court of Appeal was not concerned with the effect of amalgamation which produced a different lot number. It was well understood that the dominant tenement had been redeveloped and had become part of a condominium. It was recognised by the High Court and the Court of Appeal that the area of the dominant tenement had been enlarged upon amalgamation of the plots of land. Goh J reached the conclusion that the easement (which was acquired by express grant) over the servient tenement could be used in connection with the enlarged area of the dominant tenement as so changed if the court was satisfied that the change did not and could not result in an increase in the quantum or nature of user of the easement to that enjoyed originally. In considering whether there was excessive user in the sense of a greater or different burden on the servient tenement, on the facts there was no evidence of excessive user and there was no likelihood as such. The residents of Grange Heights had, since 1976, only been using Lot 111-31 as a foot path and not for vehicular traffic. (That we understand is still the position in the current proceedings.) Accordingly, Goh J found no basis for concluding that the easement could not continue to be exercised by the MCST in connection with the enlarged area of the dominant land.
Mr Tan argued that, on principle and authority, an amalgamation of dominant land and non-dominant land did not displace the rule in Harris v Flower such that a grant of a right of way now extended to the enlarged plot. By ruling that the easement subsisted and that it enured to the benefit of the enlarged dominant tenement, the High Court, whose decision was upheld by the appellate court, did not follow the general rule in Harris v Flower forbidding enlargement or extension of the dominant tenement beyond the original grant. The real point is that for the purposes of this appeal, the correctness of the judgments relied on for issue estoppel is completely irrelevant: see Spencer Bower, Turner and Handley on The Doctrine of Res Judicata (Butterworths, 3rd Ed, 1996) at para 15. Moreover, it was not argued, and indeed no “special circumstance exception” exists, in the present appeal such as to prevent the operation of issue estoppel: see Arnold v National Westminster Bank Plc ([14] supra) at 109 per Lord Keith of Kinkel.
For all these reasons we dismissed the appeal with costs and ordered the security deposit to be released to the respondent to account of its costs. We should mention that in the end, and on the whole of the case, it was not necessary to examine the many authorities that were referred to by either party or deal with the other contentions canvassed by the respondent.