This suit concerns disputes arising out of a subscription and option agreement dated 30 April 2004 (“the SOA”) between the plaintiff, Van Der Horst Engineering Pte Ltd (“VDH”), and the defendant in the original action, Rotol Singapore Ltd (“Rotol”).
Under the SOA, VDH agreed, subject to the terms thereof, to subscribe for 110m new shares in Rotol at 11.5¢ per share. The same agreement included a call option granted by Rotol to VDH to subscribe for another 110m new shares at the same subscription price of 11.5¢. The subscription for the aggregate 220m shares would give VDH a controlling interest in Rotol.
The second defendant to the counterclaim, Kwan Chee Seng (“Kwan”), was a director of VDH and, under the SOA, gave a guarantee to Rotol for VDH’s performance of the SOA.
Pursuant to the terms of the SOA, VDH paid a sum of $100,000 to Rotol as earnest money when the SOA was executed. After the execution of the SOA, VDH learnt certain information (mentioned below) concerning Rotol from which it concluded that Rotol had breached certain warranties and undertakings given under cll 7 and 8 respectively of the SOA. After unsuccessful negotiations between the parties, VDH terminated the SOA and sought, inter alia, the refund of the earnest money, as well as special and general damages.
The relevant parts of cll 7 and 8 of the SOA provide as follows: 7 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY 7.1 The Company hereby warrants to the Subscriber and acknowledges that the Subscriber has entered into this Agreement in reliance on such warranties that as of the date of this Agreement and up to the Placement Shares Completion Date (save as disclosed to the Subscriber prior to the date of this Agreement or in the Accounts or in information which is publicly available):- (a) … (b) … (c) … (d) … (e) the Accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and the Group for the period ended on and as at the Accounts Date; (f) so far as the Company is aware having made enquiries, no litigation against or by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in progress, pending or threatened, which individually has or collectively have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the Group taken as a whole; (g) … (h) all publicly available information which had up to the time of signing this Agreement been disseminated by the Company (including without limitation all announcements and publications appearing on MASNET or the SGX-ST website pertaining to the Company) are true and correct in all material respects and the Company, having made enquiries, is not aware of any matter, fact or circumstance which would lead to any such information to be untrue or inaccurate or misleading.