This action, commenced before the District Court by the appellant, Mr Tetsuo Yamashita, raises a point of construction as to a deed of settlement dated 29 September 2003 (“the Deed”) entered into between See Hup Seng Ltd (“the Company”), the respondent herein, and one of its major shareholders and creditors, SHS Holding (Pte) Ltd (“SHSH”). The appellant was the assignee of certain rights of SHSH under the Deed. 
The Company is listed on the main board of the Singapore Exchange Ltd (“SGX”). Apart from SHSH, another major shareholder of the Company was Mr Thomas Lim (“Lim”), who, at the time the Deed was entered into, was also the chairman of the Company.
In 2003, the Company was on the verge of insolvency. SHSH was a creditor of the Company to the tune of $4,043,337.50. In order to salvage the Company, there was a need to inject fresh capital and make arrangements as to the debts owed by the Company to its creditors. Meadow Springs Enterprises Ltd (“Meadow Springs”) emerged as the white knight which was prepared to rescue the Company by investing in it. To that end, an elaborate arrangement (“the rescue plan”) was worked out. As part of this arrangement, on 29 September 2003, Meadow Springs entered into an agreement with SHSH to acquire some 30,813,440 shares which the latter owned in the Company (“the S&P Shares”), representing approximately 28% of the Company’s issued share capital, at the price of $0.0475 per share on condition that the Company’s debts then owing to SHSH (which debts were repayable upon demand) were restructured. Thus, the Deed, which was intended to effect the debt restructuring, came into being as an indispensable part of the rescue plan. A similar deed was also entered into between Lim and the Company in relation to the debts owed by the Company to him.
Furthermore, as part of the rescue plan, Meadow Springs also entered into the following agreements on 29 September 2003: (a) a call and put option agreement with Lim in respect of all of his 36,112,500 shares in the Company (“the TL Shares”), which constituted approximately 32.82% of the Company’s issued share capital; and (b) a call and put option agreement with SHSH and Linguafranca Co Ltd (“Linguafranca”) in respect of the shares that each of them owned in the Company (collectively, “the SHSH-LF Shares”), which, taken together, came up to 22,924,060 shares and represented approximately 20.83% of the Company’s issued share capital. The actual text of these two call and put option agreements (“the Agreements”) was not disclosed in these proceedings. However, according to the official announcement made by the Company to SGX via MASNET on 29 September 2003, which was tendered to the court,[note: 1]the effect of the Agreements was as follows. First, under the call option aspect of the Agreements, Meadow Springs was entitled, within six months of the date of the Agreements (the “Call Option Period”), to acquire the TL Shares and the SHSH-LF Shares from Lim and from SHSH and Linguafranca respectively at the price of $0.0475 per share. Second, under the put option aspect of the Agreements, Lim as well as SHSH and Linguafranca were entitled, within a period of five market days immediately after the expiry of the Call Option Period, to require Meadow Springs (if it did not exercise the call option) to buy the said two lots of shares at the same price of $0.0475 per share. Third, Lim and SHSH, being the holders of 10,833,750 detachable warrants and 16,121,250 detachable warrants respectively, which warrants could be converted into the same number of shares in the Company at the price of $0.11 per share, had a right (if the warrants were converted) to offer to sell to Meadow Springs, within seven months from the date of the Agreements, the 10,833,750 shares and the 16,121,250 shares respectively at a price to be determined in accordance with a prescribed formula. If Meadow Springs did not accept the offer, Lim and SHSH could sell those shares in the open market.
Under the Deed, the debts owed by the Company to SHSH were apportioned into two parts, one part consisting of the sum of $1,773,337.50 (“the Warrant Liability Amount”) and the other part consisting of $2,270,000 (“the SHSH Convertible Loan”). In this appeal, we are only concerned with the SHSH Convertible Loan. Clause 5.5 of the Deed set out a feature (“the Conversion Feature”) whereby SHSH could convert the SHSH Convertible Loan, either in whole or in part, into shares in the Company at the conversion price of $0.15 per share, with “the relevant principal amount from the SHSH Convertible Loan [to] be utilised and applied to meet such conversion price” (see cl 5.5(a) of the Deed). Clause 5.5 also provided that a minimum of 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan must be converted into shares in the Company within three years from the date of the Deed, ie, by 29 September 2006 (“the Repayment Date”). The present action centred entirely on the construction of the provisions in the Deed, which I will examine more closely in a moment.
In March 2004, SHSH was placed under voluntary liquidation. At the time, Lim owned 32% of SHSH, with Linguafranca owning the remaining 68%. Following its liquidation, the assets of SHSH were distributed between its two shareholders in the following proportions:[note: 2]
Subsequently, Linguafranca assigned its right to its share of the SHSH Convertible Loan (viz, $473,238.40 (“the Assigned Amount”)) to the appellant. Of course, this assignment only meant that the appellant stepped into the shoes of Linguafranca as far as the Assigned Amount was concerned, but, other than that, the rights and obligations of the original parties under the Deed would remain the same as before. By way of a notice of assignment dated 21 March 2006, the Company was informed of the assignment.
On 28 April 2006, the Company mistakenly notified Linguafranca’s Ms Carmen So (a representative of and the holder of a power of attorney from the appellant) that, as the option to convert the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares vested in the Company, the latter intended to convert the whole of the loan into shares in the Company. Upon the appellant’s objection, on 8 May 2006, the Company clarified as follows:[note: 3] [The appellant] has the choice of converting the Assigned Loan [ie, the Assigned Amount of $473,238.40] into shares in the Company at the issue price of $0.15 per share at any time prior to the ... Repayment Date on 29 September 2006 or to receive an amount equal to 75% of the Assigned Loan as full repayment of the Assigned Loan on 29 September 2006. The appellant replied stating that he would prefer that the whole of the Assigned Amount of $473,238.40 be repaid to him in cash.
On 17 May 2006, Lim opted to convert part of the loans due to him, amounting in total to $2,849,700.00 (which presumably included his entire interest in the Warrant Liability Amount and the SHSH Convertible Loan), into shares in the Company. The Company repaid Lim a balance sum of $75.59 in cash to avoid creating an odd lot of shares. With this conversion, approximately 79% of the SHSH Convertible Loan had been converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date. 
On 22 May 2006, the chief financial officer of the Company notified the appellant (through his solicitors) that he would be entitled to repayment of only 75% of the Assigned Amount if he chose not to convert that entire amount into shares in the Company. Further correspondence ensued between the parties, but the differences between them remained. On the Repayment Date (ie, 29 September 2006, three years from the date of the Deed), the Company repaid the appellant only the sum of $354,928.80 (ie, 75% of $473,238.40). This set the stage for the present proceedings, in which the appellant sought, inter alia, an order that the Company pay him the sum of $118,309.60, being the difference between the Assigned Amount (viz, $473,238.40) and the actual sum repaid (viz, $354,928.80).
I will now set out the clauses in the Deed which are germane to the issue in hand: 1.1 In this Deed (including the Schedules), unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions shall bear the following meanings respectively: ... 2.2 ... (ii) [T]he … amount of S$2,270,000.00 ... (“SHSH Convertible Loan”) shall be constituted and deemed [to be] a loan owing by the Company to SHSH with effect from the date of this Deed and on the terms and conditions set out in clause 5. ... 5.1 The SHSH Convertible Loan is interest-free ... 5.2 Subject to [c]lause 5.3 below, 75% of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. 5.3 Inthe event [that] the Company is unable to obtain all relevant approvals for the Conversion Feature or SHSH is unable to exercise the Conversion Feature by reason of such Conversion Feature not being valid or enforceable or otherwise not in full force and effect for any reason whatsoever, the SHSH Convertible Loan, 100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. 5.4 Notwithstanding anything in this [c]lause 5, the whole of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall become due and payable immediately in cash upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following events:– (i) if any step is taken by any person with a view to the winding-up of the Company or ... the appointment of a liquidator (including a provisional liquidator), receiver, judicial manager, trustee, administrator, agent or similar officer of the Company or over any part of the assets of the Company; (ii) if the obligations of the Company under this Deed [cease] to be valid, binding or enforceable in all respects; (iii) if the Company commits or threatens to commit a breach of any of the terms, conditions, covenants, undertakings, provisions and/or stipulations contained in this Deed on its part to be observed and performed; or (iv) a distress or execution or writ of seizure and sale or attachment is levied upon or issued against any of the property or assets of the Company. 5.5 Subject to clause 5.6 below, the SHSH Convertible Loan shall have a conversion feature (“Conversion Feature”) whereby SHSH may, but shall not be obliged to, at any time and from time to time from the date of this Deed up to and including the Repayment Date, convert the SHSH Convertible Loan in whole or in part into Shares subject to the following terms: (a) the conversion price will be S$0.15 for each Share and the relevant principal amount from the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be utilised and applied to meet such conversion price; once so utilised and applied that relevant principal amount of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be deemed fully and effectually repaid; (b) each exercise of such right will be by way of a Conversion Notice by SHSH to the Company, provided that: (i) each Conversion Notice must be served between 9.00a.m. and 5.00p.m. on any Market Day falling before (but not on) the Repayment Date; and (ii) subject to [paragraph] (iv) ... below, no Conversion Notice may be served in respect of any principal amount of the SHSH Convertible Loan which has been repaid or deemed repaid by the Company; (iii) except for a Conversion Notice which relates to all of the balance of the SHSH Convertible Loan which can be so converted, each Conversion Notice must relate to 150,000 Shares or an integral multiple thereof; and (iv) inthe event [that] less than 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan has been converted into Sharesas at the Repayment Date (the difference between 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan and the actual amount of [the] SHSH Convertible Loan converted into Shares [is] to be referred to as [the] “Shortfall Conversion Amount”), a Conversion Notice is deemed to be served on the Repayment Date to convert the Shortfall Conversion Amount into Shares on the terms of this clause 5. 5.6  The Conversion Feature shall be conditional upon the Company obtaining all relevant approvals for the Conversion Feature (including without limitation the approval of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited and, if necessary, [the] approval of the shareholders of the Company) in respect of such rights to convert and of the allotment, issuance and listing of Shares arising from such conversion. [emphasis added]
At first instance, the district judge held that, on a true construction of the Deed, the SHSH Convertible Loan was repayable in full (ie, 100% of the loan was to be repaid), except that at least 25% of the repayment should take the form of conversion into shares in the Company at the price of $0.15 per share and not more than 75% of the repayment should take the form of cash repayment. She reasoned, relying on cll 5.3 and 5.4 of the Deed, that, as the Company was obliged to repay the full amount of the SHSH Convertible Loan if any of the events stated in those two clauses occurred (ie, if things did not work out), the parties to the Deed could not reasonably have intended that the Company would be obliged to repay less than 100% of the loan if everything worked out satisfactorily. Since Lim had already converted approximately 79% of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date, the appellant was entitled to full repayment of the Assigned Amount instead of only 75% thereof as contended by the Company.
The Company, being dissatisfied with the ruling of the district judge, appealed to the High Court, which reversed the decision of the District Court (see Yamashita Tetsuo v See Hup Seng Ltd [2008] 2 SLR 1040 (“the GD”)). The High Court judge who heard the appeal (“the Judge”) held that the appellant was entitled to be repaid only 75%, and not 100%, of the Assigned Amount. In coming to this view, the Judge relied very much on cl 5.2 of the Deed, which, to his mind, meant that, on the Repayment Date, only 75% of that part of the SHSH Convertible Loan which had not been converted into shares in the Company as at that date (“the Unconverted Principal Amount”) would be repaid in cash and the remaining 25% of that amount would be forfeited. He held that full repayment of the SHSH Convertible Loan (ie, repayment of 100% of the original principal sum of $2,270,000 (“the Original Principal Amount”)) was only possible if any of the circumstances set out in cll 5.3 and 5.4 of the Deed occurred. He reasoned at [53] and [55] of the GD as follows: 53 ... I am of the view that the intention to extinguish 25% of the outstanding loan [ie, the Unconverted Principal Amount] on the date of repayment has been made abundantly clear in cl 5.2 of the Deed where it states unequivocally that subject only to cl 5.3, exactly 75% (and not 100%) of the loan shall be repaid in cash on the [R]epayment [D]ate. Furthermore, [the] parties had made clear in the Deed that only in two situations would the [SHSH] [C]onvertible [L]oan be repaid in full: the situation covered by cl 5.3 and the ... situation covered by cl 5.4. Since these two situations never took place, cl 5.2 must become the sole operative clause specifying what amount of the loan shall be repaid in cash on the [R]epayment [D]ate. ... 55 ... If I were to construe cl 5.2 of the Deed to mean that 100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be repaid on the [R]epayment [D]ate when the commercially-advantageous convertibility feature [ie, the Conversion Feature] is available, not only will I be adopting a construction that is contrary to the clear words of cl 5.2, I will [also] be effectively rewriting the Deed for the parties and changing their bargain, which I am not minded to do. [emphasis added in bold italics]
In the opinion of the Judge, this 25% reduction in cash repayment in respect of the Unconverted Principal Amount (if any), which he termed a “haircut”, was clearly justifiable as it was “in exchange for the valuable convertibility feature [ie, the Conversion Feature]” (see [56] of the GD) and was not an unreasonable commercial result. Noting that the Conversion Feature was “very similar” (id at [59]) to an option to purchase shares, the Judge elaborated on the value of such an option in these terms (see [60] of the GD): Investors are prepared to pay money to acquire such valuable option rights because a “financial advantage” accrues to a call option holder arising from the right given to him at any time during the validity period of the option to compel the call option giver to sell the shares to him at a fixed exercise price, even when the prevailing market price of the shares at that time is higher than the exercise price. ... [T]he holder of a convertible loan ... will generally not want to exercise his right to convert his loan into shares if the prevailing market price of the shares at the time of conversion is below the exercise price of the shares for the conversion. Instead, he will be better off, demanding repayment of the loan in cash on the repayment date. With the money, he can go to the securities market and purchase the same shares at a cheaper price if he wants to. There is therefore no point in converting the loan directly into shares at [the] exercise price, which is higher than the prevailing market price for the shares. On the other hand, where the prevailing market price of the shares at the time of conversion is above the share exercise price, then the holder of a convertible loan will generally find it financially attractive and profitable to exercise the option and convert [his loan] into ... shares. [emphasis in original]
 The appellant submitted that the Judge was wrong in construing the Deed – in particular, cl 5 thereof – to mean that the appellant was entitled to cash repayment of only 75% of the Assigned Amount on the Repayment Date. His main points were the following: (a) the Judge did not correctly appreciate the nature of a convertible loan; (b) the Judge did not have sufficient regard to the factual matrix in which the Deed was entered into; and (c) there was no basis for the Judge to hold that it was reasonable for the holder of the SHSH Convertible Loan to take a 25% “haircut” as the price or premium paid for the Conversion Feature.
The appellant’s basic contention was that cl 5.2 of the Deed, read with cl 5.5, reflected a scheme under which at least 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan was to be converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date; once that mandatory minimum requirement was met, the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date (assuming that less than 100% of the Original Principal Amount had been converted into shares by that date) was repayable in full.
In contrast, the Company submitted that the Judge had correctly understood the nature of a convertible loan. It argued that the Judge, having carefully considered the Deed as a whole and, in particular, the relevant clauses quoted at [11] above, was correct in coming to the conclusion that, under cl 5.2 of the Deed, the appellant was not entitled to ask for cash repayment of 100% of the Assigned Amount. The Company pointed out that the Judge’s comments on the 25% “haircut” were made in response to the appellant’s argument that it would be unfair, in cases of cash repayment, for 25% of the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date to be forfeited. It was in that context that the Judge stated that he did not think there was anything commercially wrong or outrageous about such an arrangement. The Company also averred that there was no basis for the appellant to contend that cl 5.2 of the Deed was the counterpart of cl 5.5(b)(iv) as neither provision referred to the other, and that the appellant’s argument ignored the fact that, under cl 5.5, a minimum of 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan had to be converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date.
It is settled principle that a document should be construed as a whole. This rule was alluded to by Lord Watson in Chamber Colliery Company, Limited v Twyerould [1915] 1 Ch 268, where he said that it was a “well-known rule” (at 272) that (ibid): [A] deed ought to be read as a whole, in order to ascertain the true meaning of its several clauses; and ... the words of each clause should be so interpreted as to bring them into harmony with the other provisions of the deed, if that interpretation does no violence to the meaning of which they are naturally susceptible.
In addition, a document must also be construed in the context of its “factual matrix” or “surrounding circumstances” (per Lord Wilberforce in Reardon Smith Line Ltd v Yngvar Hansen-Tangen [1976] 1 WLR 989 (“Reardon Smith Line Ltd”) at 997 and 995 respectively). This principle was further considered in the more recent House of Lords decision of Investors Compensation Scheme Ltd v West Bromwich Building Society [1998] 1 WLR 896, where it was reiterated that a document ought to be construed in the light of its factual matrix. Lord Hoffmann summarised the position as to the interpretation of a document in these terms (id at 912–913): (1) Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at the time of the contract. (2) The background was famously referred to by Lord Wilberforce as the “matrix of fact,” but this phrase is, if anything, an understated description of what the background may include. Subject to the requirement that it should have been reasonably available to the parties and to the exception to be mentioned next, it includes absolutely anything which would have affected the way in which the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable man. (3) The law excludes from the admissible background the previous negotiations of the parties and their declarations of subjective intent. They are admissible only in an action for rectification. The law makes this distinction for reasons of practical policy and, in this respect only, legal interpretation differs from the way we would interpret utterances in ordinary life. The boundaries of this exception are in some respects unclear. But this is not the occasion on which to explore them. (4) The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a reasonable man is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably have been understood to mean. The background may not merely enable the reasonable man to choose between the possible meanings of words which are ambiguous but even (as occasionally happens in ordinary life) to conclude that the parties must, for whatever reason, have used the wrong words or syntax: see Mannai Investments Co. Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd. [1997] A.C. 749. (5) The “rule” that words should be given their “natural and ordinary meaning” reflects the common sense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an intention which they plainly could not have had. Lord Diplock made this point more vigorously when he said in Antaios Compania Naviera S.A. v. Salen Rederierna A.B. [1985] A.C. 191, 201 : “if detailed semantic and syntactical analysis of words in a commercial contract is going to lead to a conclusion that flouts business commonsense, it must be made to yield to business commonsense.” [emphasis added]
In the recent case of Sandar Aung v Parkway Hospitals Singapore Pte Ltd [2007] 2 SLR 891 , this court had the occasion to review the principles governing the construction of documents, and this was what it stated at [29]: The key concept here is that of context. No contract exists in a vacuum and, consequently, its language must be construed in the context in which the contract concerned has been made. We would go so far as to state that even if the plain language of the contract appears otherwise clear, the construction consequently placed on such language should not be inconsistent with the context in which the contract was entered into if this context is clear or even obvious, since the context and [the] circumstances in which the contract was made would reflect the intention of the parties when they entered into the contract and utilised the (contractual) language [which] they did. It might well be the case that if a particular construction placed on the language in a given contract is inconsistent with what is the obvious context in which the contract was made, then that construction might not be as clear as was initially thought and might, on the contrary, be evidence of an ambiguity. [emphasis in original]
All said, the object of construing a contract is to ascertain the objective intention of the parties as reflected in the words used when viewed in the context of the factual matrix of the contract in question. I am conscious that, in Reardon Smith Line Ltd ([19] supra), Lord Wilberforce said (at 996) that “when one is speaking of aim, or object, or commercial purpose, one is speaking objectively of what reasonable persons would have in mind in the situation of the parties”. Thus, there should not be too much reliance on literal interpretation. Instead, regard should be had to the commercial purpose of a transaction. The court, upon examining all the circumstances surrounding the transaction, could even conclude that the parties must, whatever the reasons, have used the wrong words (see Chitty on Contracts (H G Beale gen ed) (Sweet & Maxwell, 29th Ed, 2004) vol 1 at para 12-118). But, there is no suggestion in the present case by either party that any wrong words were used in the Deed. Having said that, I would add that it is not the function of a court to rewrite the bargain between the parties (see MAE Engineering Ltd v Fire-Stop Marketing Services Pte Ltd [2005] 1 SLR 379 at [27]). While I recognise that the line between construing a contract to determine the real objective intention of the parties and rewriting a contract can, in particular circumstances, be a fine one, the court should be astute not to impose, under the guise of construing a document, its own sense of fairness or reasonableness on a transaction entered into between two commercial parties who are well capable of taking care of their respective interests and who have obviously engaged in much bargaining before concluding the arrangement finally arrived at (as was the case in this appeal). 
While I would, at the outset, state that the Deed is certainly not a model of excellent drafting, its overall sense seems reasonably clear. I recognise, however, that its sense would have been even clearer if a couple of linkages had been expressly provided for.
Clause 1.1 of the Deed defines the term “SHSH Convertible Loan” to mean “the loan of principal amount of S$2,270,000 referred to in clause 2.2(ii)”. Clause 2.2(ii) provides that the sum of $2,270,000 (ie, the Original Principal Amount) constitutes and is deemed to be a loan owing by the Company to SHSH which can be either utilised (in terms of being converted into shares in the Company) or repaid as set out in cl 5. Clause 5.2 provides that “[s]ubject to [c]lause 5.3 ... 75% of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date”. Clauses 5.3 and 5.4 provide for repayment of 100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan (ie, repayment of 100% of the Original Principal Amount) if certain eventualities occur. None of those eventualities in fact occurred in the present case and, therefore, cll 5.3 and 5.4 have no application in this appeal. Clause 5.5(b)(iv) provides that at least 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be converted into shares in the Company at the price of $0.15 per share by the Repayment Date. The crux of the matter is how cl 5.2 should be construed in this context. Reading all the relevant clauses in the context of the arrangement between the parties, it is reasonably plain to me that cl 5.2 means that only 75% of the Unconverted Principal Amount is to be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. At [35]–[38] below, I will examine why it is not unreasonable to forfeit 25% of the Unconverted Principal Amount where the Original Principal Amount has not been fully converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date.
I will now elaborate on my reasons for construing cl 5.2 of the Deed in the manner outlined at [23] above. As noted in that paragraph, cl 5.2 is expressly stated to be “[s]ubject to” cl 5.3. Under cl 5.3, “100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan” (ie, 100% of the Original Principal Amount) is to be repaid on the Repayment Date if: (a) the necessary approval for the exercise of the Conversion Feature has not been obtained; or (b) SHSH is unable to exercise the Conversion Feature by reason of that feature being invalid or unenforceable or not in full force and effect. The necessary approval is referred to in cl 5.6, and it includes the approval of the shareholders of the Company as well as that of SGX. As the necessary approval for the exercise of the Conversion Feature was obtained in the present case (as evinced by Lim’s conversion of approximately 79% of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company (see [9] above)), cl 5.3 was not triggered and, as mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it is not relevant for the purposes of this appeal. The only faintly significant aspect about cl 5.3 is that it expressly refers to “100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan”. Arguably, one can make the point that, if the term “SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.3 means the whole of the Original Principal Amount, then there would be no need for this clause to expressly include the words “100% of”. I do not think, however, that too much should be placed on this technical point. It may be that the drafters of the Deed were not absolutely consistent in the way in which they denoted the whole of the Original Principal Amount. It is the overall scheme of things as reflected in the express provisions of the Deed that is crucial.
Clause 5.4 is an overriding provision as far as cl 5 (taken as a whole) is concerned as it expressly provides at the outset that, “[n]otwithstanding anything in ... [c]lause 5” [emphasis added], if any of the events mentioned in cl 5.4 occur (viz, if, stated broadly, (a) any step is taken to wind up the Company, or (b) the Company’s obligations under the Deed cease to be valid, binding or enforceable, or (c) the Company breaches any of the provisions of the Deed, or (d) execution is levied on or issued against the Company), then “the whole of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall become due and payable immediately in cash” [emphasis added]. As none of the events specified in cl 5.4 occurred in the present case, this clause was not triggered, and it is thus not really relevant in this appeal except in so far as it uses the word “whole” when referring to the SHSH Convertible Loan. In this regard, the same point made in relation to the words “100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.3 (see [24] above) may be made here. 
At this juncture, I would pause to address what may appear to be a very important question, namely: Why did the parties agree that there should be repayment of 100% of the SHSH Convertible Loan if any of the events spelt out in cll 5.3 and 5.4 occurred? It seems to me that the answer is simple enough. In relation to cl 5.3, if the necessary approval for the exercise of the Conversion Feature were not obtained, then, contrary to what the Deed envisaged, the Company would not have the authority to issue shares and the Conversion Feature would become academic. Further, even if shares were purportedly issued (despite the lack of approval), such shares would not be allowed to be traded on SGX. In that eventuality, there being no fault on the part of SHSH, it is completely understandable why Meadow Springs (which was effectively the party in control of the Company as a result of the rescue plan) should think it fair that the Company should repay the Original Principal Amount in full to SHSH on the Repayment Date.
Turning to cl 5.4, if any of the eventualities set out in that clause had indeed occurred, the Company (which, as just mentioned, was effectively under the control of Meadow Springs) would have been in serious trouble. In that scenario, it would not have mattered to Meadow Springs whether 100% or less of the SHSH Convertible Loan was repayable because the debts owed by the Company would simply have become paper debts in that the Company would not, in any case, have been in a position to repay those debts. In short, the rescue plan would have failed. This explains why cl 5.4 even provides (by the use of the overriding expression, “[n]otwithstanding anything in ... [c]lause 5”) – should this eventuality indeed materialise – for the full repayment of the SHSH Convertible Loan irrespective of whether some portion of it has already been converted into shares in the Company under cl 5.5. 
I note that the district judge, in reliance on cll 5.3 and 5.4, thought that those two clauses showed that it was always the intention of the parties that there should be full repayment of the SHSH Convertible Loan less the amount (if any) utilised for conversion into shares in the Company. The appellant made the same point before this court. As will be shown later (at [36]–[42] below), the appellant has not correctly understood the rationale for the arrangement set out in the Deed. In any event, it is not correct for the appellant to say that, under cl 5.4, the amount to be repaid under the SHSH Convertible Loan is the Original Principal Amount reduced by the sum (if any) utilised for conversion into shares. That is certainly not what is expressly provided for in cl 5.4 (see [27] above).
I now turn to the very important cl 5.5. In essence, the following substantive matters were provided for in this clause. First, under cl 5.5(a), SHSH could convert either the whole or part of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company at the price of $0.15 per share. Second, whatever amount of the SHSH Convertible Loan was utilised for conversion into shares was deemed to have been “fully and effectually repaid” (see cl 5.5(a)) to SHSH. Third, upon each exercise of the Conversion Feature, SHSH was required to give appropriate notice to the Company, and such notice had to relate to a minimum of 150,000 shares or an integral multiple thereof unless the notice related to the entire balance of the SHSH Convertible Loan which could be converted into shares (see cll 5.5(b)(i)–5.5(b)(iii)). Fourth, under cl 5.5(b)(iv), SHSH was required to convert at least 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company at the aforesaid price of $0.15 per share by the Repayment Date; if less than that portion of the loan had been converted into shares as at that date, the shortfall (ie, the difference between 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan and that part of the loan which had already been converted into shares in the Company) would automatically be converted into shares on the Repayment Date. In the present instance, since approximately 79% of the SHSH Convertible Loan (viz, the portion assigned by SHSH to Lim) had already been converted into shares in the Company as at the Repayment Date, cl 5.5(b)(iv) had no application.
Before this court, the appellant sought to read cl 5.2 together with cl 5.5(b)(iv). He argued that the 25% reduction or “haircut” envisaged in cl 5.2 where there was cash repayment on the Repayment Date had all to do with cl 5.5(b)(iv) in that, once 25% or more of the SHSH Convertible Loan had been converted into shares in the Company, the remainder of the loan (ie, the Unconverted Principal Amount) was to be repaid in full in cash on the Repayment Date. But, in my view, this is not what is provided for in cl 5.2. For the appellant’s argument to be tenable, cl 5.2 would have to be significantly amended to something along the following lines: Subject to [c]lause 5.3 and clause 5.5(b)(iv) below, 75%100% of the balance of the SHSH Convertible Loan shall be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. [amendments to the original text of cl 5.2 in bold and underlined]
I would point out that the appellant did not suggest before this court that SHSH (or the appellant as its assignee) was entitled to cash repayment of 75% of the Original Principal Amount irrespective of how much of the Original Principal Amount had already been utilised for conversion into shares in the Company. This implicitly recognised that the words “the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.2 would mean the Unconverted Principal Amount and not the Original Principal Amount. In this regard, it must be borne in mind that there is no other clause in the Deed which provides for repayment of the Unconverted Principal Amount (if any).
It can be seen that, as alluded to earlier at [23] above, both the construction of cl 5.2 contended for by the Company (which was accepted by the Judge) and that which the appellant canvassed involved reading some words such as “the balance of” in between the words “75% of” and “the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.2. It seems to me that reading some such words into this clause is essential to make sense of it. The reasoning of the Judge as set out at [39]–[40] of the GD is persuasive and, here, I quote: 39 If indeed the words “the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.2 are meant to refer to the original principal amount of $2,270,000 as contended by [the appellant] (and not to the outstanding principal amount of the loan as at the [R]epayment [D]ate), then the repayment term in cl 5.2 makes no sense and is wholly unworkable because it totally disregards any part of the loan that might have been earlier used for conversion into shares and, hence, extinguished from the principal amount still owing. 40 An example will show why [the appellant’s] interpretation is both not sensible and not workable. If “the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.2 means the original principal amount [of] $2,270,000, then cl 5.2 requires $1,702,500 (or 75% of $2,270,000) of the loan to be repaid in cash. This means that [the Company] will invariably have to pay out a fixed sum of $1,702,500 on the [R]epayment [D]ate in accordance with cl 5.2. But what if SHSH had, prior to the [R]epayment [D]ate, used $1,500,000 of the [SHSH] Convertible Loan [for conversion into] 10,000,000 ... shares [in the Company] at $0.15 per share? Applying [the appellant’s] interpretation [of] cl 5.2, [the Company] will still have to repay SHSH the sum of $1,702,500 in cash, being 75% of the original loan amount of $2,270,000. If so, then the total amount effectively repaid by [the Company] is $1,500,000 plus $1,702,500 making a total repayment of $3,202,500 for a convertible loan which started off with only an original principal amount of $2,270,000. This example not only illustrates the absurdity of interpreting the relevant amount of ... “the SHSH Convertible Loan” in cl 5.2 to mean the original principal amount of $2,270,000, but also demonstrates that cl 5.2 [was] never meant to operate on the original principal amount. In my view, it can only logically refer to the outstanding principal amount as at the date of repayment. [emphasis in original]
The difficulty with the appellant’s interpretation of cl 5.2 is that the insertion of the suggested three words (viz, “the balance of”) into cl 5.2 would not in itself lead to a construction of the clause that entitles the appellant to be repaid the whole of the Assigned Amount on the Repayment Date. For such a construction to be made out, “75%” in cl 5.2 would also have to read as “100%” instead, and therein lies the difficulty with the interpretation espoused by the appellant. Recognising this, the appellant argued that cl 5.2 was linked to cl 5.5(b)(iv) (see [30] above). His reasoning was this: The reference to 75% in cl 5.2 had all to do with the requirement under cl 5.5(b)(iv) that at least 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan must be converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date. That accordingly meant that 75% of the Original Principal Amount would be repaid in cash, which was why cl 5.2 provided that 75% of the SHSH Convertible Loan would be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. With respect, this argument is a non-starter as it requires the implicit meaning of cll 5.2 and 5.5 to be stretched beyond recognition. The real insurmountable difficulty with the appellant’s contention is that cl 5.5 does not say that only 25% of the SHSH Convertible Loan may be converted into shares in the Company. On the contrary, that is the minimum which must be converted into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date. The appellant’s argument ignores the fact that the opening sentence of cl 5.5 expressly states that the whole or part of the SHSH Convertible Loan may be converted into shares. Therefore, it is not possible to link the specification of 75% of the SHSH Convertible Loan in cl 5.2 with the requirement in cl 5.5(b)(iv) that at least 25% of the loan must be converted into shares by the Repayment Date. In my view, it is significant that the drafters of the Deed did not expressly link the two clauses when they could easily have done so. 
In essence, the appellant wanted this court to construe cl 5.2 to mean that the Company was to repay 100% of the Unconverted Principal Amount on the Repayment Date, regardless of whether that amount was 75% of the Original Principal Amount or less if more than 25% of the Original Principal Amount had been converted into shares. It seems to me that such an interpretation cannot be adopted without doing violence to cl 5.2. It would require this court to ignore the express reference in cl 5.2 to repayment of “75% of the SHSH Convertible Loan” [emphasis added] and, further, would involve rewriting the clause. If the interpretation of cl 5.2 asserted by the appellant was indeed what was intended, the parties could simply have stated in this clause that: Subject to [c]lause 5.3 and clause 5.5 below, 100% of that part of the SHSH Convertible Loan which has not been converted into shares in the Company as at the Repayment Date shall be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. [amendments to the original text of cl 5.2 in bold and underlined]
Much has been made of the fact that, as SHSH would have to use $0.15 from the SHSH Convertible Loan to pay for each share in the Company if it were to exercise the Conversion Feature (ie, if it were to choose to receive repayment of the loan by way of being issued with shares in the Company), which price was a concession to Meadow Springs in that it was well above the sum of $0.0475 per share that SHSH obtained from selling its shares in the Company (ie, the S&P Shares defined at [3] above) to Meadow Springs, there was no reason to expect SHSH to take a further 25% reduction in repayment of the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date (which amount would be either 75% or less of the Original Principal Amount, depending on how much of the SHSH Convertible Loan had been converted into shares in the Company). Was it fair that the holder of the SHSH Convertible Loan, be it SHSH or its assignee, should still take a reduction of 25% of the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date in such circumstances?
Contrary to the district judge’s view (see [12] above), I do not think that a reduction of 25% in cash repayment in the scenario just mentioned (see [35] above) is an unreasonable condition. In this regard, it is vital that the Deed be considered against its factual matrix. It is imperative to bear in mind why the Deed was entered into in the first place. It is common ground that, at the time the Deed was executed, the Company was in a very bad financial state. At any moment, it could go under. If that should happen, not only would the capital which SHSH had invested in the Company be lost, but the loans that SHSH had given to the Company – which formed the subject matter of the arrangement under the Deed – would also have very little prospect of being recovered. That was the backdrop at the material time. It was in those bleak circumstances that a white knight was sought. Unless a fresh investor were to come in to rescue the Company, SHSH would very likely have lost everything which it had put into the Company. The white knight was Meadow Springs, which, as a condition for purchasing the S&P Shares from SHSH, required that the Deed be entered into. Understandably, Meadow Springs would not have wanted to get involved in the Company by investing in it if the existing creditors of the Company, including SHSH, could pull the rug from right under the Company’s feet by demanding for repayment of the outstanding debts and, in the event of the Company failing to make payment, by petitioning for the Company’s winding up. This concern had to be addressed, and the Deed provided the answer. This is reflected in cl 9.1 of the Deed, which reads:  The Parties [ie, the Company and SHSH] acknowledge that they have entered into this Deed at the request of Meadow Springs ... (the “Purchaser”) and in connection with an option agreement entered or to be entered into between, inter alia, SHSH and the Purchaser. Accordingly, the Purchaser will enjoy the benefit[s] of and may enforce such benefits under this Deed. For the avoidance of doubt, this Deed may not be amended or modified or superseded or its effect vitiated, except with the prior written consent of the Purchaser. It is significant that cl 9.1 provides that the terms of the Deed may not be amended without the written consent of Meadow Springs. Obviously, at the time the Deed was entered into, SHSH was hardly in a strong position to bargain with Meadow Springs. The shots were essentially called by the latter. This explains why, in respect of the S&P Shares which it bought from SHSH, Meadow Springs paid only $0.0475 per share – a price which clearly reflected the poor financial state of the Company as at 29 September 2003 – whereas SHSH would have to use $0.15 from the SHSH Convertible Loan to pay for each share in the Company upon exercising the Conversion Feature.
Admittedly, in normal circumstances, selling a share at $0.0475 and buying it back at $0.15 would make no sense. No one in his right mind would do that. However, the circumstances surrounding the Deed were anything but normal. The arrangement set out in the Deed only makes sense when it is viewed against the aforesaid backdrop (see [36] above) – ie, at the material time, the shares in the Company were worth either very little or nothing at all, and the loans which SHSH had given to the Company were already bad. By selling the shares which it held in the Company (ie, the S&P Shares) to Meadow Springs at $0.0475 per share, SHSH at least recovered something instead of nothing at all. And, if Meadow Springs were to succeed in saving the Company, then SHSH would benefit even in respect of the shares which it acquired at $0.15 per share by exercising the Conversion Feature. The aim of the rescue plan was to tie the fortunes of SHSH to those of the Company. SHSH had not much of a choice in the face of commercial reality. The Deed gave SHSH an opportunity to salvage as much as it could in a bad situation. The whole arrangement set out in the Deed was a carefully balanced business arrangement between two parties (effectively, SHSH and Meadow Springs) who knew exactly what they were doing and/or what each party was up against. Both parties took business risk in the arrangement. If the rescue plan were to succeed, Meadow Springs would gain and so would SHSH. It would not make business sense for Meadow Spring to allow the Company to use the Company’s funds, which were likely to come from new sources connected with Meadow Springs, to pay off in full what were really bad debts of SHSH. It seems to me that the appellant had not properly appreciated the situation prevailing at the material time when he said that SHSH had granted indulgences or made concessions to Meadow Springs via the terms of the Deed. Similarly, and with respect, I also think that the district judge failed to give sufficient consideration to this particular factor. I would underscore that the Deed should be construed in the light of the conditions prevailing at the date it was entered into. Neither Meadow Springs nor SHSH knew for sure then if the rescue plan would succeed. 
In my opinion, it is clear that the primary objective of the arrangement set out in the Deed was to encourage SHSH to convert as much of the SHSH Convertible Loan as possible (subject to a minimum of 25% thereof) into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date. The imposition via cl 5.2 of a reduction of 25% in the amount to be repaid to SHSH in respect of the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date was to be the disincentive for SHSH not to exercise the Conversion Feature. It seems to me equally plain that the aim behind the arrangement set out in the Deed was to ensure that, as far as possible, all the funds which SHSH had already put into the Company, whether as capital or by way of loans, should remain in the Company and be applied towards the rescue plan instead of being given back in cash to SHSH, a substantial shareholder and creditor of the Company. The provision of a period of three years for SHSH to convert the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company was to allow SHSH time to see if the rescue plan was succeeding. If it was, then converting the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company, even at the price of $0.15 per share, would make good commercial sense. If, on the other hand, it did not appear that the rescue plan was succeeding, and if SHSH should consider it unwise to convert the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company, then SHSH would have to bear a 25% “haircut” if it wished to have cash repayment of the Unconverted Principal Amount after satisfying cl 5.5(b)(iv). I would reiterate that even this outcome (viz, a reduction of 25% in the amount repaid) would be better for SHSH than the outcome if the rescue plan had not been effected at all because, in the latter scenario, the Company would very likely have gone under and SHSH would very likely not have been able to recover any of the loans which it had given to the Company; in short, there would very likely have been total or near total loss for SHSH. The rescue plan as a whole gave hope to SHSH. If Meadow Springs were to succeed in putting the Company back on an even keel, not only would Meadow Springs benefit, but so would shareholders and creditors of the Company like SHSH as SHSH would then be able to resell the shares which it acquired by exercising the Conversion Feature (as well as the shares which it would acquire using the Warrant Liability Amount (see [43] below)) at a much higher price than that which it paid for each share. Given the prevailing circumstances at the material time, SHSH did not have much of a choice and the choice was obvious.
It can be seen from the preceding discussion (at [36]–[38] above) that my analysis of the justification for SHSH taking a 25% reduction in the quantum of cash repayment received in respect of the Unconverted Principal Amount as at the Repayment Date is different from the analysis adopted by the Judge, who thought that the 25% reduction or “haircut” was the price or premium paid by SHSH for the Conversion Feature. At [50] and [56] of the GD, the Judge stated: 50 ... In my view, the valuable consideration agreed to be given by the lender to the borrower under the Deed in exchange for the convertibility feature [ie, the Conversion Feature] in the restructured loan is effectively provided [for] by the 25% discount on the cash repayment [of] the remainder of the unconverted loan. … 56 ... [I]t is precisely because the benefit of the convertibility feature is made available to the creditor under the new loan structure that he has to “pay” for that benefit by foregoing a part of the unconverted loan [ie, the Unconverted Principal Amount] when he gets repayment on the loan in cash. In other words, the creditor takes a “[haircut]” on the loan repayment in cash at the [R]epayment [D]ate. Having a “[haircut]” on the cash repayment in exchange for the valuable convertibility feature can hardly be said to be an unreasonable commercial result.
I do not disagree that an option granted by a company to a person to purchase its shares at a predetermined price within a fixed period of time is a valuable security. However, in the circumstances of this case and for the reasons which I have indicated at [36]–[38] above, the 25% reduction in cash repayment of the Unconverted Principal Amount on the Repayment Date was really the disincentive for SHSH not to convert the whole of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company by that date. Putting it in positive terms, this “haircut” was the incentive for SHSH to convert the whole of the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company by the Repayment Date.
I note the appellant’s contention that a lender under a convertible loan is not normally expected to take a “haircut” or a reduction in the amount which it is repaid. In this regard, the appellant relied upon the following passage from Philip R Wood, International Loans, Bonds and Securities Regulation (Sweet and Maxwell, 1995) at para 9-5: The attraction to the investor of an equity-linked bond [which is a type of convertible loan] is that, irrespective of the performance of the underlying shares, the bond provides a fixed rate of income (albeit a lower rate than [that] on an otherwise similar non equity-linked bond) and is relatively secure, while at the same time giving the holder an option to convert into or subscribe for shares at a fixed price, and thereby benefit from any increase in the market value of the shares above that fixed price. The package provides safe debt plus speculative equity.
I do not disagree with these comments of Philip Wood, who is clearly referring to the case where people put good money into equity-linked bonds. That scenario is, however, completely different from the scenario in the present case, where the bad debts owed by the Company were given a new lease of life via the rescue plan, with the Deed setting out the bargain between the parties effectively involved (namely, Meadow Springs and SHSH). To compare the scenario outlined by Philip Wood (as reproduced in the preceding paragraph) with the scenario in this appeal would not be to compare like with like. I have already elaborated on this (at [36]–[38] above) and do not wish to repeat my reasoning.
As mentioned at [5] above, the Deed designated the sum of $1,773,337.50 owed by the Company to SHSH as the Warrant Liability Amount. Under cl 3 of the Deed, SHSH could utilise this sum to pay for shares in the Company at the price of $0.11 per share on exercising the 16,121,250 detachable warrants which it held (see [4] above). It should be noted that the price of $0.11 per share was lower than the price of $0.15 per share which SHSH would have to pay for converting the SHSH Convertible Loan into shares in the Company. I would not be at all surprised if this price differential was meant to reflect what I believe to be the industry practice, viz, that a person subscribing for new shares through the exercise of warrant rights normally pays a price lower than the market price of those shares at the time the warrants were issued.
In respect of the Warrant Liability Amount, there was no corresponding provision for the repayment of any portion of that amount which was not used by SHSH to pay for the Company’s shares upon exercising its rights under its warrants (referred to hereafter as SHSH’s “warrant rights” for convenience). Instead, what I see being provided for under cl 4.1 of the Deed is that, if all or any portion of the Warrant Liability Amount was not applied by SHSH towards the exercise of its warrant rights within the period of seven months from the date of the Deed, that sum would be deemed “settled, satisfied, discharged and released”. In other words, whatever part of the Warrant Liability Amount that was not used to pay for shares in the Company upon SHSH’s exercise of its warrants rights would effectively be forfeited. The appellant sought to rely on this to contend that if, in relation to the SHSH Convertible Loan, it was the intention of the parties that SHSH (or its assignee) should forfeit 25% of the Unconverted Principal Amount on the Repayment Date, words similar to those used in cl 4.1 in relation to the Warrant Liability Amount would have been adopted in cl 5. However, the scheme of the SHSH Convertible Loan was not that, if any part of that loan was not converted into shares in the Company, the same would be treated as “settled, satisfied, discharged and released” (per cl 4.1). Instead, in respect of the SHSH Convertible Loan, the Deed provided that, after the requirement that a minimum of 25% of the loan be converted into shares in the Company was satisfied, only 75% of any unconverted part of the loan – ie, only 75% of the Unconverted Principal Amount – would be repaid in cash on the Repayment Date. That was what was stated in cl 5.2. As far as the Warrant Liability Amount was concerned, SHSH had no option but to convert the whole of that amount into shares in the Company. If it did not do so, the unconverted part of the Warrant Liability Amount would simply be deemed settled and discharged; in short, it would be forfeited. In contrast, in respect of the SHSH Convertible Loan, SHSH was given a bit more flexibility, albeit with an incentive for it to convert the loan into shares or, viewing it in another way, a disincentive for it not to so convert. It seems to me that the effective parties to the Deed (ie, Meadow Springs and SHSH) had carefully devised two separate and distinct schemes in respect of the SHSH Convertible Loan and the Warrant Liability Amount. Given this context, it does not really help to compare the wording used for one scheme with that used for the other since the two schemes are different to begin with.
Accordingly, I agree with the construction of cl 5.2 of the Deed given by the Judge, although my reason for holding that it was not unreasonable to repay to SHSH in cash only 75% of the Unconverted Principal Amount on the Repayment Date is not the same as that proffered by the Judge. In the result, I would dismiss the appeal with costs and the usual consequential orders. However, my brother judges think otherwise.