The plaintiffs were contracted to buy a property from the defendants. As the first plaintiff was not a Singapore citizen, he needed to obtain approval for the purchase from the Land Dealings Approval Unit. When his application was refused, he claimed that the contract was subject to approval being given. That was, however, not an express term of the contract. The plaintiffs’ application by way of this Originating Summons for a declaration that it was an implied term was dismissed by Lee J on 12 August 2008. On 2 October 2008, Lee J further ordered that the plaintiffs be entitled to the sum of $44,000 held by the stakeholder M/s Sng & Co in excess of damages assessed and due to the defendants.
On 29 January 2010 the plaintiffs’ solicitors wrote to the defendants’ solicitors for a refund of the $44,000. The property had in the meantime been sold for $1,080,000 whereas the original contract price with the plaintiffs was $1,100,000. The parties had also settled the question of costs at $30,000 in February 2009. Thus, after deducting this from $44,000 a sum of $14,000 remained with the stakeholder. The plaintiffs asked for this to be paid out to them pursuant to Lee J’s order.
The defendants refused on the ground that the damages due being the difference between the sale price and the contract price was $20,000. Thus the plaintiffs were not entitled to the $14,000 and further, had to pay the defendants $6,000 to make up the damages accrued, this is, the $20,000 difference in price.
The plaintiffs’ solicitors wrote to the defendant to say that by O 21 r 2(6) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, r 5, 2006 Rev Ed) the defendant not having pursued his claim for damages within 12 months from Lee J’s order, the matter is deemed to have been discontinued. Counsel for the defendants, Mr Cheah Kok Lim, submitted that the defendants needed time to get the property sold, and that was done only in June 2009. The defendants’ affidavit stated that the failure to proceed with the assessment of damages was due to inadvertence. It should be mentioned that although the assessment should be a simple matter in this case, the plaintiffs were entitled to challenge the defendants as to the efficacy in which the property was subsequently sold.
The assistant registrar dismissed the defendants’ application for leave to re-instate the matter under r 2(8), and the defendant thus appealed against the dismissal. On appeal before me, both counsels referred to Moguntia-Est Epices SA v Sea-Hawk Freight Pte Ltd [2003] 4 SLR(R) 429 in which Judith Prakash J expressed some views as to how the court should exercise its discretion in granting a party leave to reinstate the matter. The three factors stated in that judgment (at [21]) were as follows — (a)Has the plaintiff satisfied the court that he is innocent of any significant failure to conduct the case with expedition prior to the trigger date having regard to the particular features of the case. If he has not, then reinstatement should be refused; (b)Has he satisfied the court that in all the circumstances his failure to take any step in the action since the trigger date (and this would include his failure to apply for an extension of time) is excusable, ie should be forgiven? If he has not, then again reinstatement should be refused; (c)Has the plaintiff satisfied the court that the balance of justice indicates that the action should be reinstated? If not once again reinstatement should be refused.
The defendants’ appeal was therefore dismissed with no order as to costs.