This was an appeal by Thrumoorthy s/o Ganapathi Pillai (the “Appellant”) against a two year disqualification sentence (“DQ”) imposed on him after being convicted for drink driving pursuant to s 67(1)(b) of the Road Traffic Act (Cap 376, 2004 Rev Ed) (“RTA”). At the conclusion of the first hearing on 16 July 2010, I directed the Prosecution to make further submissions on whether the fact that an accused chose to stop by the road after finding himself intoxicated could be considered a mitigating factor.
In PP v Rangasamy Subramaniam Criminal Reference No 3 of 2010 (“Rangasamy”), the Court of Appeal dealt with a similar case. Although the court there was dealing with the issue of whether the presumption provision of s 71A(1) applied to an accused charged pursuant to s 67(1)(b), the practical effect of that case is that an accused person could be liable to a charge of drink driving even though he was sleeping inside the vehicle at the side of the road. The court’s grounds of decision have yet to be released.
If a driver knows that he is intoxicated and voluntarily stops by the road shoulder to either (a) prevent an accident from occurring for his continued driving, or (b) to avoid a greater contravention of the law, it seems to me that this voluntary arrest of risk deserves some form of credit. Even though these intoxicated sleeping drivers have, as a result of the Rangasamy case, been determined to be liable for the same s 67(1)(b) offence, the court ought to distinguish such accused persons from those offenders who are caught in the actual act of driving in so far as sentencing is concerned. Other than the Rangasamy case, there are no written decisions on similar cases canvassing the applicable sentencing considerations. In principle however, there are two main reasons why such a fact should be considered a mitigating circumstance.
Firstly, in the case of the intoxicated sleeping driver, his culpability has been mitigated by his voluntary act of averting harm. Naturally, a driver who had continued driving would logically have been an active risk to fellow road users who come into contact with that errant driver. Conversely, the potential harm of the crime would have decreased if the offender voluntarily arrests the risk at hand. See Thorneloe v Filipowski [2001] NSWCCA 213 as per Speigelman CJ at [130]. It would thus be unfair to say that the two types of drivers above are equally culpable. Secondly, it seems sensible to encourage drunk motorists to stop driving in mitigation of having started off in the first place. The motives behind the voluntary stop could either lie in his/her intention to prevent any accident from his continued driving, or a selfish reason of avoiding a harsher punishment if he were to be caught for drink driving. Whatever the motives, it would be in the public interest to encourage intoxicated drivers to stop and refrain from driving until they become sober. There are therefore two facets of public interest that the court has to consider; the first aims at discouraging drivers from driving in the first place when they have chosen to drink (thus the liability of the charge applies to the intoxicated sleeping driver) and the second aims to encourage drivers to remind themselves of their intoxication and stop driving.
From the record of appeal, it appears that the Appellant did not stop on his own volition. The District Judge (the “DJ”) found that: 29 ... This was not a case where the Accused had felt sleepy while driving, pulled over at the road shoulder and had stopped his vehicle like the factual situation in Rangasamy’s case. 30 In my view, it is evident that the Accused in the present was clearly so highly intoxicated when he took to the wheels of the van on his way home ..., he was unable to recall how he ended up at Lornie Road. It was undisputed that he had driven the van until Lornie Road and in my view he was so inebriated that he had passed out while his van was in the first lane of Lornie Road with the engine still running... [emphasis added]
Accordingly in my view, the Appellant’s sentence was not manifestly excessive and the appeal against sentence was therefore dismissed.