This was an application by the plaintiff for an interim payment of $80,000 from the first defendant pursuant to O 29 r 10 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the Rules of Court”). I granted the plaintiff’s application, and, given the novelty of some of the issues involved, I now provide the grounds of my decision.
Under O 29 r 11(1) of the Rules of Court, the court has the power to make an order for interim payment, but this power is curtailed in the circumstances provided for in O 29 r 11(2). For convenience, the relevant provisions of O 29 r 11 are as follows: Order for interim payment in respect of damages (O. 29, r. 11) 11 .—(1) If, on the hearing of an application under Rule 10 in an action for damages, the Court is satisfied — … (b) that the plaintiff has obtained judgment against the defendant for damages to be assessed; … … the Court may, if it thinks fit and subject to paragraph (2), order the defendant to make an interim payment of such amount as it thinks just, not exceeding a reasonable proportion of the damages which in the opinion of the Court are likely to be recovered by the plaintiff after taking into account any relevant contributory negligence and any set-off, cross-claim or counterclaim on which the defendant may be entitled to rely. (2) No order shall be made under paragraph (1) in an action for personal injuries if it appears to the Court that the defendant is not a person falling within one of the following categories: (a) a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claim; or (b) a person whose means and resources are such as to enable him to make the interim payment.
It was not disputed that O 29 r 11(1)(b) of the Rules of Court was satisfied, since the plaintiff had obtained interlocutory judgment against the first defendant (see [9] below). Instead, the dispute was essentially as to O 29 r 11(2), ie, whether the first defendant was “a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claim” or “a person whose means and resources are such as to enable him to make the interim payment”. Due to the somewhat awkward phrasing of O 29 r 11(2), I should clarify that in these grounds, when I refer to either limb of O 29 r 11(2) “applying” or being “satisfied”, I mean that an interim payment cannot be ordered, ie, the defendant is not, for instance, a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claim.
On 15 October 2008, at about 3.03am, while riding his motorcycle along the Pan Island Expressway, the plaintiff was involved in a serious road accident when a motor car (“SGT 6356X”) driven by the first defendant collided into him. As a result of the accident, the plaintiff suffered serious injuries which necessitated the amputation of a portion of his left leg.
The first defendant was not in fact the owner of SGT 6356X. That person was his sister, Lua Bee Leng Sally (“Sally Lua”), who had been issued a comprehensive motor insurance policy (“the Policy”) by M/s Allianz Insurance Company of Singapore Pte Ltd ( “Allianz” or the “second defendant”, depending on the capacity in which it acted). As required by the Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Risks and Compensation) Act (Cap 189, 2000 Rev Ed) (“the Act”), the Policy provided insurance coverage to Sally Lua and other authorised drivers of SGT 6356X in respect of, inter alia, third party risks. It should be said that the first defendant was driving SGT 6356X with the authority of Sally Lua, and would, prima facie at least, therefore have been insured under the Policy.
Subsequently, in respect of the accident, the first defendant was charged with, and on 13 August 2010 convicted of, inter alia, an offence of driving while under the influence of drink under s 67(1)(b) of the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276, 2004 Rev Ed).
The plaintiff then commenced the present suit against the first defendant, who, as is common in these types of cases, was initially represented by M/s Global Law Alliance LLC (“Global Law”), the solicitors for Allianz. On 25 June 2010, however, Global Law wrote to the first defendant, stating that Allianz repudiated liability under the Policy to indemnify him against the plaintiff’s claim, on account of the fact that the first defendant had been driving while under the influence of alcohol. Allianz’s purported repudiation of liability under the Policy was pursuant to cl 5.3, which provided: 5.3 When are you not insured? You are not insured under any part of this Policy: a) if Your Car is being driven by a person … iv) who has more than the legal limit of any alcohol in his blood or breath …
Once Allianz purported to repudiate liability under the Policy, Global Law was no longer in a position to act for the first defendant, and, accordingly, on 26 October 2010 the first defendant engaged M/s KhattarWong to represent him. Immediately thereafter, on 27 October 2010, Allianz applied to be joined as the second defendant, represented by Global Law, which application was granted on 24 November 2010. However, at all points in these proceedings, no direct claim was being made by the plaintiff against the second defendant.
On 11 January 2011, the trial was heard by Andrew Ang J, and interlocutory judgment was entered in favour of the plaintiff against the first defendant only, with costs and damages reserved to the Registrar.
That was the background against which the parties appeared before me on 11 May 2011 in respect of the plaintiff’s application for interim payment. It was quite clear that O 29 r 11(1)(b) of the Rules of Court was satisfied (see [3] above), and so the remaining question was whether O 29 r 11(2) precluded me from entertaining the plaintiff’s application.
Counsel for the second defendant, Mr Niru Pillai, was unfortunately scheduled to attend another hearing, and therefore was only able to briefly set out the second defendant’s position. This was to the effect that the second defendant did not consider itself to be in a position to consent or object to the application, because it had repudiated liability vis-à-vis the first defendant, and its statutory obligation under s 9 of the Act to satisfy a judgment obtained by the plaintiff was only triggered when the plaintiff obtained a final judgment. Mr Pillai thereafter left it to the first defendant to deal with the plaintiff’s application.
Counsel for the plaintiff, Mr N Srinivasan, clarified that interim payment was only being sought against the first defendant and not the second defendant. Mr Srinivasan’s submission in support of the application was essentially that, notwithstanding that the second defendant had purported to repudiate its liability under the Policy, nonetheless the first defendant was still “a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claim”, and therefore O 29 r 11(2)(a) of the Rules of Court did not apply. For this proposition Mr Srinivasan relied on Du Zhao Di (suing as Committee of the Person and Estate of Jiang Hui Ping) v Lee Chee Yian (Mayban General Assurance, intervener) [2007] SGHC 88 (“Du Zhao Di”), which he submitted was on all fours with the present case, save that in Du Zhao Di interlocutory judgment had not been obtained.
Counsel for the first defendant, Mr Patrick Yeo, objected to the plaintiff’s application. He allied himself with the second defendant’s position and argued that, since the second defendant had repudiated liability under the Policy, and given that the second defendant was not obliged under the Act to satisfy interlocutory judgments, the second defendant was therefore not obliged to meet any order of interim payment. According to the English Court of Appeal in O’Driscoll v Sleigh and another (unreported, 20 November 1984) (“O’Driscoll”), cited with approval in Du Zhao Di, the test under O 29 r 11(2)(a) was whether the insurer would be obliged to meet any interim award. Since the second defendant was not so obliged, Mr Yeo submitted, the first defendant was not “a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claim” and therefore O 29 r 11(2)(a) applied, making it impermissible for me to make an order for interim payment.
There was also some argument as to O 29 r 11(2)(b), ie, whether the first defendant was “a person whose means and resources are such as to enable him to make the interim payment”. Mr Srinivasan argued that since the first defendant had been able to retain KhattarWong throughout these proceedings (as well as proceedings in the Subordinate Courts in respect of his criminal charges), O 29 r 11(2)(b) did not apply, while Mr Yeo’s response was that no affidavit evidence had been produced by the plaintiff as to the first defendant’s means and resources.
As I required some time to consider parties’ arguments, as well as the applicability of Du Zhao Di, I reserved my judgment.
After considering the matter, however, I was concerned that certain points had not been fully addressed during the hearing, and I therefore invited parties to clarify the following:
Parties appeared before me again on 13 June 2011, and, after hearing arguments from counsel for all parties on the above points, I granted the plaintiff’s application.
The issues which arose for my consideration, therefore, were as follows: (a) Whether, notwithstanding that the second defendant had purported to repudiate its liability under the Policy, the first defendant was nonetheless “a person who is insured in respect of the plaintiff’s claims” within the meaning of O 29 r 11(2)(a) of the Rules of Court; and (b) Who bore the burden of proving whether the first defendant was “a person whose means and resources are such as to enable him to make the interim payment” within the meaning of O 29 r 11(2)(b), and whether that burden had been discharged; (c) Whether, if neither O 29 r 11(2)(a) nor O 29 r 11(2)(b) was applicable, I ought to exercise my discretion to order interim payment, and if so the amount of interim payment to be granted; and (d) Whether, if interim payment was ordered, it could be paid to the plaintiff personally, or whether, under s 9 of the Act, it had to be paid to the Public Trustee. The [Act], which is intended to safeguard the legal rights of third parties who have been injured or killed by persons who use motor vehicles on the road, establishes a system for compulsory motor insurance in Singapore with regard to third party liability. It requires a motor insurer to meet the insured’s obligations to a third party… in the event that the insured does not do so. Certain conditions in policies or securities to be of no effect 7.—(1) Any condition in a policy or security issued or given for the purposes of this Act providing that no liability shall arise under the policy or security or that any liability so arising shall cease in the event of some specified thing being done or omitted to be done after the happening of the event giving rise to a claim under the policy or security shall be of no effect in connection with such claims as are mentioned in section 4 (1) (b) [ie, claims in respect of death or bodily injury by third parties]. (2) Nothing in this section shall be taken to render void any provision in a policy or security requiring the person insured or secured to repay to the insurer or the giver of the security any sums which the latter may have become liable to pay under the policy or security and which have been applied to the satisfaction of the claims of third parties. Avoidance of restrictions on scope of policies covering third-party risks 8.—(1) Where a certificate of insurance has been issued under section 4 (9) to the person by whom a policy has been effected, so much of the policy as purports to restrict the insurance of the persons insured thereby by reference to any of the following matters: (a) the age or physical or mental condition of persons driving the vehicle; (b) the condition of the vehicle; (c) the number of persons that the vehicle carries; (d) the weight or physical characteristics of the goods that the vehicle carries; (e) the times at which or the areas within which the vehicle is used; (f) the horse-power or value of the vehicle; (g) the carrying on the vehicle of any particular apparatus; or (h) the carrying on the vehicle of any particular means of identification other than any means of identification required to be carried by or under the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276), shall as respects such liabilities as are required to be covered by a policy under section 4 (1) (b) be of no effect. (2) Nothing in this section shall require an insurer to pay any sum in respect of the liability of any person otherwise than in or towards the discharge of that liability. (3) Any sum paid by an insurer in or towards the discharge of any liability of any person which is covered by the policy by virtue only of this section shall be recoverable by the insurer from that person. Duty of insurers to satisfy judgments against persons insured in respect of third-party risks 9.—(1) If after a certificate of insurance has been issued under section 4 (9) to the person by whom a policy has been effected judgment in respect of any such liability as is required to be covered by a policy under section 4 (1) (b) (being a liability covered by the terms of the policy) is obtained against any person insured by the policy then, notwithstanding that the insurer may be entitled to avoid or cancel or may have avoided or cancelled the policy, the insurer shall, subject to this section, pay to the Public Trustee as trustee for the persons entitled thereto — (a) any sum payable thereunder in respect of the liability including any amount payable in respect of costs; and (b) any sum payable in respect of interest on that sum by virtue of any written law relating to interest on judgments. (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) providing for the payment to the Public Trustee — (a) where the judgment is for a sum not exceeding the relevant amount, the insurer may pay the sum to the person or persons entitled to the benefit of the judgment; … (3) No sum shall be payable by an insurer under subsections (1) and (2) — … (b) in respect of any judgment so long as execution thereon is stayed pending an appeal; … … 33 … Insofar as the [plaintiff] was concerned, such a breach of the insurance contract on the part of the defendant that would afford repudiation can only operate inter partes and not omni partes. Put another way, there was no doubt that, so far as the [plaintiff] was concerned, the [defendant] was covered by a valid policy of insurance, for it is conventional wisdom that “conditions precedent to liability and conditions subsequent to avoiding liability cannot be used in respect of claims by a third party in respect of injury or death which has been caused by the injured tortfeasor”: see Goh-Low Soen Yin et al, “Insurance Law”, Articles on Singapore Law (24, 2005). For that reason, if, in fact, the term does attempt to impinge upon the rights of third parties (such as the [plaintiff] here), it must necessarily be held to be void (at least vis-à-vis the third party), for such a term would be the quintessential form of term that would fall foul of s 7(1) of the Act… 34 Therefore… I was of the view that the [intervener] would, by virtue of the above reasoning, be treated, so far as the [plaintiff] was concerned, as insurers with a duty to indemnify the defendant in respect of the claim. No reliance can be had to the purported repudiation for the purposes of any action that had been commenced by a third party, since such third party could not, in law, be burdened by the ramifications of such a term that may otherwise be binding on the parties inter partes. As such, it was not open for the [intervener] to argue that there had been repudiation since such repudiation was predicated upon the efficacy of a term that had no effectvis-à-visthe [plaintiff]. [emphasis added in bold] … This does not extend to a condition requiring the assured to exercise reasonable care and to employ only steady and sober drivers, but conditions prohibiting driving by persons under the influence of drugs or alcohol are outlawed. [emphasis added] The insurers may not rely upon any policy term relating to “the age or physical or mental condition of persons driving the vehicle.” This provision has been held not extend [sic] to a condition requiring the assured to exercise reasonable care and to employ only steady and sober drivers, although it clearly extends to conditions which purport to restrict the insurers’ liability where the vehicle is being driven by persons under the influence of drugs or alcohol. In Bernaldez the European Court of Justice confirmed that a compulsory cover could not exclude liability for loss or damage inflicted by a drunken driver. The English courts had independently reached the view prior to the adoption of compulsory insurance that intoxication was no defence to a claim on a policy. [emphasis added in bold] Burden of proof as to particular fact 105 . The burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that person who wishes the court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by any law that the proof of that fact shall lie on any particular person. … Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge 108 . When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. … designed to meet certain exceptional cases in which it would be impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult, for the [plaintiff] to establish facts which are ‘especially’ within the knowledge of the [defendant] and which [the defendant] could prove without difficulty or inconvenience… The word ‘especially’… means facts that are pre-eminently or exceptionally within his knowledge. In the present case, the respondent wished to rely on the alleged fact that the additional US$399,500 which it would have had to pay if it had chartered the Puma was a financially prohibitive sum that it could not afford – ie, it wanted the court to believe in the existence of this fact (see s 105 of the Evidence Act). This fact was “especially within the knowledge of [the respondent]” for the purposes of s 108 of the Evidence Act since only the respondent could be fully aware of all the relevant particulars of its own financial position at the material time. Thus, … the respondent must satisfactorily establish with cogent evidence that itwasindeed unable to afford to spend an additional US$399,500 at the material point in time… [emphasis added in bold]