This case arises out of a dispute between two joint tenants of a property known as Block 741 Yishun Avenue 5 #08–506 Singapore 760741 (“the Property”). 11.My intention had always been to let the Defendant live in the Property for as long as she needed a roof over her head. However, the Property was the only substantial asset in my name and my only place of refuge. It was the only place that I could afford on my low monthly income of S$900.00. As such, I would only allow the Defendant to own the Property after my death and not otherwise. Afterall, I am single. I told the Defendant that she will only own the Property after my death and not otherwise and she agreed. 12.It was on this basis that both the Defendant and I went to the HDB in end-1993 to attend to the necessary procedures to give effect to this understanding. The HDB personnel that spoke to us at the Yishun HDB Area Office explained that for the Defendant to own the Property after I passed away, a joint tenancy of the Property can be created by adding the Defendant’s name. In the event that I passed on before her, the Property would belong to her. The Defendant did not pay me for the inclusion of her name in the duplicate certificate of title. ... 13.In or around June 2009, the Defendant was diagnosed with cancer. I felt very sad for her and paid her several visits at the hospital. However, I was totally caught by surprise when she asked me on or around 15 July 2009, during one such visit, whether I was prepared to sell the Property and to give her 30% of the sale proceeds as she owed her sister more than S$20,000 and needed to repay the debt. The Defendant told me that after discharge, she would no longer stay at the Property as she planned to stay with her sister. Accordingly, the Property could well be sold. 15.I told the Defendant that I could not accede to her request as the Property was my only place of refuge. If I sold the Property, I would not be able to afford another comparable HDB flat since HDB flat prices have gone up drastically since the 1980s. Furthermore, the understanding between us had always been that the Property would be left for her only if I passed on before her and not otherwise. 18.It was clear that [LSK] wanted to forcibly wrest a half-share of the Property from me via the Declaration. I just could not understand why the Defendant wanted to do this to me in spite of my kindness to her all these years and our understanding that she would only own the Property if I passed on before her. Where can I go if I lost the Property now? I had no choice but to seek legal redress. 1.We act for Mdm Lee Hwee Khim and refer to your letter dated 23 July 2009 to our client. 2.We wish to state for the record that your client does not have any beneficial interest in the Property. She is also well aware that she had never contributed to the purchase consideration for the Property. 3.Please let us know by Monday, 3 August 2009, 4 pm, if your client is prepared to withdraw her false assertion that she will hold the Property as “a tenant in common with [our client] ... in the share proportionate to the number of joint tenants”, i.e. your client has a half-share in the Property. If we do not hear from you positively by then, our client shall commence proceedings in the Supreme Court against your client. 4.All our client’s rights are reserved, including those available under the Oaths and Declarations Act in connection with your client’s aforesaid false statement. [Emphasis in bold added. Other emphasis in original] (a) the plaintiff was asserting that LSK had no beneficial interest in the Property, (b) the plaintiff was asserting that LSK had not contributed to the purchase consideration, and (c) there was no reference to the alleged understanding between the plaintiff and LSK that the Property was to be left to LSK only if the plaintiff died before her. 6(2)the HDB personnel that attended to us at the HDB Area Office, at the time we applied in 1993 for her name to be added to the title deed for the Property, had explained that the joint tenancy created over the Property was to (and would) give effect to the aforesaid agreement. 7.I saw the Defendant’s latest CPF summary statement exhibited in LSK’s affidavit. I now recall that the Defendant did use some monies from her CPF account to redeem the mortgage over the Property in 1993 at the time we made the application for her name to be added as joint tenant in the Property. 8.When we attended at the HDB Area Office, the HDB personnel that attended to us asked whether I wanted the mortgage over the Property be redeemed. He advised that this would stop the interest to be paid on the HDB loan for the Property from running. I agreed and the HDB personnel then prepared the paperwork for the HDB loan to be repaid. I remember I used up almost all of my CPF monies. I only remembered that the Defendant also used her CPF funds for the repayment of the HDB loan after sighting LSK’s affidavit. ... it is of the very nature of a joint tenancy that, on a severance, each takes an equal aliquot share according to the number of joint tenants. Where land is conveyed to two or more persons as joint tenants beneficially, each will share equally on severance even though they may have contributed unequally to the purchase price. It may however be possible for a trust to declare expressly that the beneficial interests of two or more parties should be equivalent to those of joint tenants unless and until severed, but that in the event of severance their interests should be in some specified shares other than equal shares.