This is an application for the extension of time to file a Notice of Appeal against an order made in the course of divorce proceedings. The applicant is the husband/defendant (“the Defendant”) in the divorce proceedings brought by the plaintiff/wife (“the Plaintiff”). Interim judgment has been entered, and orders on the ancillary matters, in particular the custody, care and control of the children of the marriage and the division of matrimonial property have been made, followed by the final judgment. The Defendant wished to appeal against the orders on the ancillary matters made on 12 August 2009 (“the ancillary orders”), and therefore made this application for an extension of time to file the Notice of Appeal. I dismissed the application, and the Defendant is appealing against my order. i)Our client is agreeable to the divorce; ii)Custody care and control of the two (2) children [B and C] to be given to the petitioner wife with reasonable visiting rights to our client; iii)All properties located either in Singapore or Malaysia is to be sold and the proceeds to be divided equally; (1)Custody care and control of the 2 minor children, namely, B and C to the Wife with reasonable access to the Husband; (2)[The Property] be transferred to the Wife free of any consideration; (3)The Wife gives up any right to any property in Malaysia now in the Husband’s name or in the joint names of the Husband and the wife; (4)The Registrar of the High Court is empowered to sign the transfer documents on behalf of the Husband to effect the transfer of the abovementioned property to the Wife; (5)In view of the transfer of the Husband’s share of the abovementioned apartment to the Wife, the Wife gives up her right to claim maintenance for herself; (6)The Wife’s right to ask for maintenance for the children be reserved; (7)Costs of the Divorce proceedings to be paid by the Husband; (8)Liberty to apply. 2. The contents of your letter is noted. If a litigant is not satisfied with the decision of the Court, the proper channel is to appeal against the judicial decision to the Court of appeal. 3. In the meantime, please seek legal advice from a practicing counsel on your legal recourse. (a) upon being served the divorce papers on or about 6 May 2008, he engaged Chong & Poh to act on his behalf; (b) he informed his solicitors that he did not agree with the Plaintiff’s proposals on the ancillary matters, especially the division of the matrimonial assets, and he wished to be heard on the matters; (c) his solicitors did not update him on the progress of the case because while they may have tried to keep him informed by mail, he was travelling, and did not open his mail box, and his solicitors did not contact him by telephone, and that lead to his not being represented at the hearing on the ancillary matters; (d) he became aware of the ancillary orders when he opened his mail box on 6 November 2009 and found the copy of the Order of Court of 12 August 2009 and 11.It was at this point that I sought the advise of friends who then advised me to engage a Singapore solicitor to try to set aside the Order obtained a [sic] apply for a fresh hearing date so that the [sic] I would have a chance to present my evidence and my side of the story. I could only engage a Singapore solicitor in late December 2009 as I did not have sufficient funds in November 2009 and some of the solicitors that I had earlier approached were reluctant to take on my case. 12.I then engaged a Singapore lawfirm, M/s Peter Ezekiel & Co sometime in mid December 2009, who then advised me that as the time for Appeal against the Order of Court has lapsed the [sic] I would be required to file Summons supported by an Affidavit to apply for leave to file my Notice Appeal out of time and therefore I am now doing so. (a) he made no reference to his letter of 11 November 2009 and the Registrar’s reply of 17 November 2009, and (b) he was inconsistent over the time he engaged his Singapore solicitor. 14. I aver that my appeal to be allowed to have joint custody, with care and control to the Defendant with reasonable access of the two minor children of the marriage is not unreasonable and disruptive to lives of the said children. I verily believe that the Learned Justice Tan made such an Order because I did not present my evidence and my version of facts so that he could make an informed decision ... (a) the length of the delay; (b) the reason for the delay; (c) the chances of success of the appeal; (d) the prejudice to the potential respondent. (a) the period of delay or more than two months is substantial; (b) the causes of the delay, ie, that he did not read his mail, that he did not maintain effective communication with his solicitors and that he did not have sufficient funds, were matters of his own making; (c) the chances of success of the intended appeal are low, because: (i) the order on custody, care and control was identical to the arrangement that the Defendant had wanted; (ii) as no evidence was put forward by the Defendant at the hearing on the division of the matrimonial assets, the facts that the Defendant set out in his affidavit in support of his present application are very unlikely to be admissible under the test laid down in Ladd v Marshall [1954] 1 WLR 1489 and applied in applications to admit new evidence in appeals to the Court of Appeal, ie, that the evidence could not have been obtained with reasonable diligence at the hearing; that the evidence must be such that if given, would probably have an important influence on the result of the case, though it need not be decisive; and that the evidence is apparently credible. The Defendant would have difficulties with the first requirement. (d) the Plaintiff would suffer some prejudice if the appeal is allowed to proceed because she had enforced the order on the transfer of the Property and had incurred costs and expenses to have the Property transferred to her name on 23 October 2009. While the prejudice can be redressed with the reimbursement of the costs and expenses, the Defendant has not given any assurance that he is able and ready to reimburse to the Plaintiff those costs and expenses.