The appellant, Mr Ho Sheng Yu Garreth (“the Appellant”), a 39-year-old male Singaporean, faced 18 charges in the District Court of engaging in a conspiracy to carry on the business of moneylending without a licence. On 29 December 2010, he pleaded guilty to six charges and agreed to the remaining 12 charges being taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. The six charges which he pleaded guilty to were offences under s 14(1) of the Moneylenders Act (Cap 188, 2010 Rev Ed) (“the MLA 2010”), and were punishable under the same section as well as under s 14(1A), both read with s 109 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”). In particular, the six charges, according to the amended Statement of Facts dated 29 December 2010 (“the Statement of Facts”), expressly stated that the Appellant had “abetted [Ku Teck Eng] and [Lee Kim Hock] by engaging in a conspiracy with them to carry on the business of [unlicensed] moneylending”. The Appellant was convicted accordingly.
This was the second time that the Appellant was convicted of unlicensed moneylending. On 29 December 2008, the Appellant had been convicted of two charges of unlicensed moneylending under s 8(1)(b) of the Moneylenders Act (Cap 188, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the MLA 1985”), punishable under s 8(1)(i) of the MLA 1985 read with s 109 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the 1985 revised edition of the Penal Code”). It should be noted that the MLA 1985 was later repealed and re-enacted as the Moneylenders Act 2008 (Act 31 of 2008) (“the MLA 2008”), which was in turn amended to become the MLA 2010.
In view of the Appellant’s previous moneylending offences, the Prosecution submitted that he was a repeat offender and was thus subject to the enhanced penalties (relating to fines and imprisonment) under s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 (see Public Prosecutor v Ho Sheng Yu Garreth [2011] SGDC 125 (“the GD”) at [3]). The Prosecution, however, stopped short of seeking an enhanced sentence in respect of caning, which was available under s 14(1A)(b) of the MLA 2010. The District Judge (“the DJ”) accepted the Prosecution’s submission that the Appellant was a repeat offender for the purposes of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 and accordingly meted out a total sentence of 60 months’ imprisonment, six strokes of the cane and a fine of $480,000 (in default, 24 months’ imprisonment) (see the GD at [8]). Dissatisfied with the DJ’s decision on sentencing, the Appellant initiated this appeal against his sentence.
At the hearing of the appeal, the preliminary issue (which was also the central issue) was whether the Appellant was liable for enhanced punishment under s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 owing to his prior convictions under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985. I decided that issue in the affirmative and did not disturb the custodial sentence imposed by the DJ. Nonetheless, I also thought it appropriate to halve the Appellant’s sentences in respect of the fines and the caning as I considered the lower court’s sentences manifestly excessive in the prevailing circumstances. I now give the detailed reasons for my decision. As these grounds are fairly lengthy, for ease of reference, I set out here an outline of the scheme adopted herein: (1) Background facts (see [5]–[9] below) a) The present convictions (see [10]–[13] below) b) The previous convictions (see [14]–[15] below) (2) The decision below (see [16]–[20] below) (3) The preliminary issue (see [21] below) a) The statutory provisions (see [22]–[25] below) b) The Appellant’s submissions (see [26]–[29] below) c) The Prosecution’s submissions (see [30]–[33] below) d) The interpretational issues (see [34] below) e) Determination of the interpretational issues (see [35] below) i. Whether the repeal of s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985, in and of itself, meant that convictions made under it could not be taken into account as prior offences for the purposes of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 (see [36]–[42] below) ii. Whether s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 ought to be construed to take into account convictions under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 as prior offences 1. An issue of construction (see [43]–[45] below) 2. Whether the offences of carrying on the business of unlicensed moneylending and assisting in the same under s 14(1) of the MLA 2010 are the same in the context of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 (see [46]–[54] below) a. Purposive interpretation as the cornerstone of statutory interpretation (see [55]–[57] below) b. Legislative history of the offence of unlicensed moneylending (see [58]–[68] below) c. The offences of carrying on the business of unlicensed moneylending and assisting in the same under s 14(1) of the MLA 2010 are the same in the context of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 (see [69]–[73] below) 3. Whether the moneylending offences under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 are the same as the offences described by s 14(1) of the MLA 2010 (see [74] below) a. Different penalties for first offenders (see [75]–[87] below) b. Different wording and structure (see [88]–[98] below) 4. Whether Parliament intended that convictions for moneylending offences under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 should count as prior convictions for the purposes of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 a. Absence of transitional and savings provisions (see [99]–[101] below) b. To ignore prior convictions for unlicensed moneylending (and the abetting by intentional aiding thereof) under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 would defeat the legislative intention (see [102]–[103] below) c. The Registration of Criminals Act (Cap 268, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the ROCA”) (see [104] below) iii. Whether treating the Appellant’s present offences as repeat offences under the MLA 2010 would contravene Art 11(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”) (see [105]–[112] below) iv. Summary and determination of the preliminary issue (see [113]–[120] below) (4) Reduction of the Appellant’s sentence in respect of fines and caning (see [121] below) a) Fines (see [122]–[131] below) b) Caning (see [132]–[134] below) c) Imprisonment (see [135]–[136] below) (5) Observation (see [137]–[138] below) (6) Conclusion (see [139] below)
The Appellant was arrested on 4 September 2010 at the void deck of Block 624 Yishun Ring Road. With him were three accomplices: Ku Teck Eng (“B2”), Lee Kim Hock (“B3”) and Tan Cheng Huat Melvin (“B4”). Each of the accomplices was prosecuted in separate criminal proceedings. As those proceedings have no direct relevance to this appeal, I shall not elaborate upon them.
The facts of the case admitted to by the Appellant are contained in the Statement of Facts tendered in the District Court proceedings below. According to the Statement of Facts, B2 and B3 started an unlicensed moneylending business together in or around September 2009. It was agreed between them that B3 was to provide a capital sum of $20,000 to finance the business, which was to be run by B2.
Sometime in November 2009, B2 recruited B4 to assist in the unlicensed moneylending business in return for 30% of the profits made from the business (the remaining 70% of the profits were to be split equally between B2 and B3). B4’s role was to canvass for borrowers and to issue loans to them at an interest rate of 20%. In order to keep track of their dealings, B2 and B4 each maintained a set of identical records comprising the debtors’ particulars, details of the loans issued and the repayments received. B2 and B4 met up once in two days to compare and update their respective records. Once a week, B3 met B2 to inspect the records so as to be kept abreast of the profits made.
It was only later in April 2010 that the Appellant came into the picture. He was introduced by B4 to B2, who learnt that the Appellant was working as a runner for an unlicensed moneylender known as “Sam”. Subsequently, in around July 2010, B2 discovered that B4 had been dishonestly using fictitious particulars to siphon money away from the unlicensed moneylending business. As a result, B2 recruited the Appellant to take B4’s place in around August 2010 on terms that the Appellant would receive 30% of the profits made from the business. Accordingly, the Appellant assumed B4’s role of canvassing for borrowers, issuing loans at the interest rate of 20% as well as collecting repayments from debtors. The Appellant also took over the records maintained by B4 and ceased working for “Sam”. Significantly, the Appellant was later introduced by B2 to B3 as a new partner in their unlicensed moneylending business.
At the point of the Appellant’s arrest, the amount of loans in circulation was estimated to be around $41,000, with a pool of about 45 debtors. This sum of money represented the profits made from the unlicensed moneylending business. By the time B4 left the unlicensed moneylending business, he had collected about $5,000 as his share of the profits. B2 collected a sum of about $5,000 as his share. B3 recovered his capital sum of $20,000 sometime in May 2010 and made a profit of about $12,000 from the unlicensed moneylending business. As for the Appellant, he received just $600 as his share of the profits (see [124] below).
Of the six charges which the Appellant pleaded guilty to, three (viz, the first, second and fifth charges) were for issuing loans in furtherance of a conspiracy to carry on the business of unlicensed moneylending, and three (viz, the eighth, eleventh and twelfth charges) were for collecting repayments in consequence of that conspiracy. The first charge (for issuing a loan in furtherance of a conspiracy to carry on the business of unlicensed moneylending) read as follows: You, [the Appellant] … are charged that you, between July 2010 to August 2010, did abet by engaging in a conspiracy with [B2] and [B3], for the doing of a thing, to wit, to carry on the business of moneylending under the alias of ‘Jeff’, without holding a licence, and in pursuance of that conspiracy and in order to the doing of that thing, an act took place on the 27 thday of August 2010, at the void deck of Block 846 Yishun Ring Road, Singapore, where you issued a loan of S$1000/- to one Pang Khia Chuan at an interest rate of 20% repayable over eight consecutive weeks, when all of you are not excluded moneylenders or exempt moneylenders or authorised to do so by licence, which offence under Section 5(1) of the Moneylenders Act (Revised Edition 2010), Chapter 188 [viz, the MLA 2010] was committed in consequence of that conspiracy, and you have thereby committed an offence under Section 14(1)(b)(i) and Section 14(1A)(a) of the said Act read with Section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224. And further, prior to the commission of the said offence, on the 29 thday of December 2008, [you] had been convicted in Subordinate Court No. 2, of an offence under Section 8(1)(b)(i) of the Moneylenders Act, Chapter 188 [viz, the MLA 1985] read with Section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224 [viz, the 1985 revised edition of the Penal Code] and sentenced to 5 months’ imprisonment, which conviction has not been set aside, and you are thereby liable for enhanced punishment under Section 14(1)(b)(ii) and Section 14(1A)(a) of the Moneylenders Act (Revised Edition 2010).
The eighth charge (for collecting repayment of a loan in consequence of a conspiracy to carry on the business of unlicensed moneylending) read as follows: You, [the Appellant] … are charged that you, between July 2010 to August 2010, did abet by engaging in a conspiracy with [B2] and [B3], for the doing of a thing, to wit, to carry on the business of moneylending under the alias of ‘Jack’, without holding a licence, and in pursuance of that conspiracy and in order to the doing of that thing, an act took place on the 23 rdday of August 2010, at the vicinity of Block 85 Bedok North, Singapore, where you collected repayment of a sum of $400/- from one Ho Chi Wei, pertaining to a loan of $2,000/- issued at an interest rate of 20%, when all of you are not excluded moneylenders or exempt moneylenders or authorised to do so by licence, which offence under Section 5(1) of the Moneylenders Act (Revised Edition 2010), Chapter 188 [viz, the MLA 2010] was committed in consequence of that conspiracy, and you have thereby committed an offence under Section 14(1)(b)(i) and Section 14(1A)(a) of the said Act read with Section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224. And further, prior to the commission of the said offence, on the 29 thday of December 2008, [you] had been convicted in Subordinate Court No. 2, of an offence under Section 8(1)(b)(i) of the Moneylenders Act, Chapter 188 [viz, the MLA 1985] read with Section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224 [viz, the 1985 revised edition of the Penal Code] and sentenced to 5 months[’] imprisonment, which conviction has not been set aside, and you are thereby liable for enhanced punishment under Section 14(1)(b)(ii) and Section 14(1A)(a) of the Moneylenders Act (Revised Edition 2010).
Again, the eleventh and twelfth charges were identically worded save for differences that were immaterial to the present appeal, such as in the Appellant’s aliases, the sums of money collected, the locations at which the collections took place and the names of the borrowers specified.
As can be seen, all the present charges referred to the Appellant’s previous convictions for unlicensed moneylending under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 on 29 December 2008.
The record showed that the Appellant had previously been convicted of two charges of abetting (by intentionally aiding) an offence under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 (specifically, the offence of carrying on an unlicensed moneylending business) by handing over sums of money to a runner for an unlicensed moneylending syndicate. The two charges of which the Appellant was convicted were identically worded save for the locations where the offences were committed and the sums of money handed over. I set the first of these charges out in full as follows:  You, [the Appellant] … are charged that you, sometime in mid of Nov 2008, at the vicinity of Sengkang near to Shell petrol [k]iosk, Singapore, did abet an unlicensed moneylending syndicate, under the alias of “Ah Boon”, to carry out a moneylending business without holding a licence to carry out such business, in that you intentionally aided the said syndicate, to wit, by handing over a sum of $1050/- to Tan Ming Hong who is a runner working for the said syndicate, which offence was committed in consequence of your abetment, and you have thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 8(1)(b) and punishable under Section 8(1) of the Moneylenders Act, Chapter 188 [viz, the MLA 1985] read with Section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224 [viz, the 1985 revised edition of the Penal Code].
The Appellant was sentenced to five months’ imprisonment for each of the two previous charges, with the imprisonment terms ordered to be served concurrently.
In sentencing the Appellant, the DJ agreed with the Prosecution that a deterrent sentence was called for because the Appellant was carrying on an illegal moneylending business for profit (see the GD at [5]). He noted further that this was a “highly organised syndicated illegal moneylending operation which charged [a] very high interest rate to the debtors” (see the GD at [7(e)]). Although the DJ considered the Appellant’s mitigation plea and his prompt plea of guilt, he observed that in cases of illegal moneylending, the overriding principle of sentencing was “clearly based on deterrence” (see the GD at [7(a)]).
The DJ also took into account the prevalence of illegal moneylending activities in Singapore in recent times (see the GD at [7(b)]). In addition, he considered that these activities, which were generally well planned and difficult to detect (see the GD at [7(c)]), affected public safety and caused public fear and disquiet (see the GD at [7(d)]).
The DJ further referred to the parliamentary debates on 21 November 2005 during the second reading of the Moneylenders (Amendment) Bill 2005 (Bill 28 of 2005), observing that Parliament had “clearly stated its zero tolerance policy against illegal moneylending activities” (see the GD at [7(f)]).
Considering all the circumstances, the DJ was of the view that a clear message must be sent to illegal moneylending business operators that a deterrent sentence would be imposed for moneylending offences. He further stated that the sentence in the Appellant’s case must deter both the offender (ie, the Appellant) and potential offenders. The DJ also made clear his awareness that any deterrent sentence must be tempered by proportionality in relation to the severity of the offence as well as the offender’s culpability (see the GD at [8]).
Accordingly, the DJ sentenced the Appellant to a fine of $80,000 (in default, four months’ imprisonment), 20 months’ imprisonment and one stroke of the cane for each of the six charges proceeded on. The imprisonment sentences for three of the charges were ordered to run consecutively, giving a total sentence of 60 months’ imprisonment, a fine of $480,000 (in default, 24 months’ imprisonment) and six strokes of the cane (see the GD at [8]).
The central plank of the Appellant’s submissions was an imaginative argument that he was a first offender under the MLA 2010 and should not be liable for enhanced punishment under s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010. This in turn raised the issue of whether the Appellant was liable for enhanced punishment under s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 on account of his previous convictions under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985. I dealt with this as a preliminary issue because had the Appellant succeeded on this front, then the maximum imprisonment sentence for his offences would have been four years (see s 14(1)(b)(i) of the MLA 2010) instead of seven years (see s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010). That, in itself, would have been a prima facie justification to recalibrate his custodial sentence downwards significantly. Therefore, I thought it sensible to first determine the applicable maximum imprisonment sentence for the Appellant’s offences before considering the remainder of the submissions on his behalf, which went towards determining an appropriate total sentence in his case.
Before going further, it is necessary to set out the relevant statutory provisions. As mentioned earlier, the Appellant was previously convicted under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985, and was punished under s 8(1)(i) of the MLA 1985 read with s 109 of the 1985 revised edition of the Penal Code. Section 8(1) of the MLA 1985 (as it stood when the Appellant committed his earlier moneylending offences in November 2008) was worded as follows: Offences 8.—(1 ) If any person — (a) takes out a licence in any name other than his true name; (b) carries on business as a moneylender without holding a licence or, being licensed as a moneylender, carries on business as such in any name other than his authorised name or at any place other than his authorised address or addresses; or (c) in the course of business as a moneylender enters as principal or agent into any agreement with respect to any advance or repayment of money or takes any security for money otherwise than in his authorised name, he shall be guilty of an offence and — (i) in the case of a first offence, shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $20,000 and not more than $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both; (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent offence, shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $20,000 and not more than $200,000 and shall also be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years; and (iii) in the case of an offender being a company, shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $40,000 and not more than $400,000: Provided that a moneylender who is not, or in the case of a firm none of the partners of which are, ordinarily resident in Singapore may without being guilty thereby of an offence carry on business in Singapore without holding a licence if he carries on the business solely through an agent duly licensed under this Act to carry on such business in Singapore under the name of that moneylender.
In contrast, the present appeal concerned the Appellant’s more recent conduct in contravention of s 5(1) of the MLA 2010, which constituted offences (and were thus punishable) under ss 14(1) and 14(1A) of the MLA 2010 read with s 109 of the Penal Code. The relevant provisions of the MLA 2010, as they stood at the time of the Appellant’s present offences, are as follows: No moneylending except under licence, etc. 5.—(1 ) No person shall carry on or hold himself out in any way as carrying on the business of moneylending in Singapore, whether as principal or as agent, unless — (a) he is authorised to do so by a licence; (b) he is an excluded moneylender; or (c) he is an exempt moneylender. ... Unlicensed moneylending 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (1A), any person who contravenes, or who assists in the contravention of, section 5(1) shall be guilty of an offence and — (a) in the case where the person is a body corporate, shall on conviction be punished with a fine of not less than $50,000 and not more than $500,000; or (b) in any other case — (i) shall on conviction be punished with a fine of not less than $30,000 and not more than $300,000 and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 4 years; and (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent offence, shall on conviction be punished with a fine of not less than $30,000 and not more than $300,000 and with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years. (1A) Subject to section 231 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap. 68) — (a) a person who is convicted for the first time of an offence under subsection (1) shall also be liable to be punished with caning with not more than 6 strokes; or (b) a person who is convicted of a second or subsequent offence under subsection (1) shall also be liable to be punished with caning with not more than 12 strokes. …
As can be seen, ss 14(1)(b)(ii) and 14(1A)(b) of the MLA 2010 provide for enhanced sentences when a person is convicted of a “second or subsequent offence”. It should be noted that the present appeal pertained only to s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 because, as stated above at [3], the Prosecution did not seek an enhanced sentence in respect of caning. Nevertheless, I should add that there is no reason why my holdings regarding s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 should not have applied similarly in relation to s 14(1A)(b) of the MLA 2010 had that provision been in issue as well.
Finally, s 109 of the Penal Code provides as follows: Punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence, and where no express provision is made for its punishment 109 . Whoever abets any offence shall, if the act abetted is committed in consequence of the abetment, and no express provision is made by this Code for the punishment of such abetment, be punished with the punishment provided for the offence. Explanation.—An act or offence is said to be committed in consequence of abetment, when it is committed in consequence of the instigation, or in pursuance of the conspiracy, or with the aid which constitutes the abetment. Illustrations (a) A offers a bribe to B, a public servant, as a reward for showing A some favour in the exercise of B’s official functions. B accepts the bribe. A has abetted the offence defined in section 161 [of the Penal Code]. (b) A instigates B to give false evidence. B, in consequence of the instigation, commits that offence. A is guilty of abetting that offence, and is liable to the same punishment as B. (c) A and B conspire to poison Z. A, in pursuance of the conspiracy, procures the poison and delivers it to B, in order that he may administer it to Z. B, in pursuance of the conspiracy, administers the poison to Z, in A’s absence and thereby causes Z’s death. Here B is guilty of murder. A is guilty of abetting that offence by conspiracy, and is liable to the punishment for murder.
Mr S K Kumar (“Mr Kumar”), counsel for the Appellant, vigorously asserted that the DJ erred in treating the Appellant as a repeat offender under the MLA 2010. First, Mr Kumar submitted that s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985, under which the Appellant was previously convicted, had been repealed. Second, he argued that the word “offence” in s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 must precisely refer only to an offence defined by s 14(1) of the MLA 2010, viz, the offence of contravening (or assisting in the contravention of) s 5(1) of the MLA 2010. He further submitted that such offence was different from the offence of unlicensed moneylending under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 in two ways.
The first difference was that the punishment for a first offender under s 14(1)(b)(i) of the MLA 2010 was plainly heavier than the corresponding punishment under s 8(1)(i) of the MLA 1985. In this regard, Mr Kumar also suggested that even if the court treated the Appellant as a first offender under the MLA 2010, it would be free to take his prior convictions into account as aggravating factors and impose a slightly higher punishment.
The second difference (according to Mr Kumar) lay in the fact that s 14(1) of the MLA 2010 created the new offence of assisting in the carrying on of the business of unlicensed moneylending. Therefore, s 14(1) of the MLA 2010 described two offences (viz, the principal offence of carrying on the business of unlicensed moneylending and the offence of assisting in that principal offence) and not one. In contrast, s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 only described the principal offence of carrying on the business of unlicensed moneylending. Mr Kumar submitted that while the Appellant’s previous offences under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 were for abetting the carrying on of an unlicensed moneylending business, the Appellant’s present offences were in the nature of assisting in the carrying on of an unlicensed moneylending business. These offences, Mr Kumar maintained, were altogether different from the Appellant’s previous offences.
Third, Mr Kumar argued that if Parliament had intended the provisions for enhanced punishment under the MLA 2010 to take into account previous offences committed under the MLA 1985, then the MLA 2010 would have specifically provided for it. Finally, Mr Kumar submitted that treating the Appellant as a repeat offender for the purposes of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 on account of his prior convictions under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 would contravene Art 11(1) of the Constitution, which provides as follows: Protection against retrospective criminal laws and repeated trials 11.—(1) No person shall be punished for an act or omission which was not punishable by law when it was done or made, and no person shall suffer greater punishment for an offence than was prescribed by law at the time it was committed. (a) whether the repeal of s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985, in and of itself, meant that convictions made under it could not be taken into account as prior offences for the purposes of s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010; (b) whether s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 ought to be construed to take into account convictions under s 8(1)(b) of the MLA 1985 as prior offences; and (c) whether treating the Appellant’s present offences as repeat offences under s 14(1)(b)(ii) of the MLA 2010 would contravene Art 11(1) of the Constitution. An Act to repeal and re-enact with amendments the Moneylenders Act (Chapter 188 of the 1985 Revised Edition) for the regulation of moneylending and for matters connected therewith, and to make consequential amendments to the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act (Chapter 65A of the 2000 Revised Edition) and the Registration of Criminals Act (Chapter 268 of the 1985 Revised Edition). [emphasis added] … The conviction of the respondent under s 67(1) before the “repeal” [ie, under the repealed s 67(1) RTA] is a fact which did not cease to exist on the “repeal”. ... He remained as a person who had been so convicted. ... [T]here is no question of the “repeal” affecting the subsistence of this fact. … Effect of repeal 16.—(1) Where a written law repeals in whole or in part any other written law, then, unless the contrary intention appears, the repeal shall not — ... (b) affect the previous operation of any written law so repealed or anything duly done or suffered under any written law so repealed; ... (d) affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any written law so repealed … … [emphasis added] “repeal” includes rescind, revoke, cancel or replace … [emphasis added] What is before us is simply whether a conviction under s 67(1) before its “repeal” [ie, a conviction under the repealed s 67(1) RTA] can properly be taken into account when applying the subsection after its “repeal” [ie, when applying the re-enacted s 67(1) RTA]. The issue is one of construction, of ascertaining the intention of Parliament when enacting the new provision. [emphasis added] 47. (1) A person shall not–— (a) drive a vehicle; or (b) attempt to put a vehicle in motion, while he is so much under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a drug as to be incapable of exercising effective control of the vehicle. Penalty— (a) If the vehicle concerned was a motor vehicle— (i) for a first offence, not less than sixty and not more than two hundred dollars or imprisonment for not more than three months and, in either case, disqualification from holding and obtaining a driver’s licence for such period as the court thinks fit, but in no case less than three months; (ii) for a second offence, imprisonment for not less than one month and not more than six months and disqualification from holding and obtaining a driver’s licence for such period as the court thinks fit, but not less than six months; (iii) for a third or subsequent offence, imprisonment for not less than three months and not more than twelve months and disqualification from holding and obtaining a driver’s licence for such period as the court thinks fit, but not less than three years; (b) if the vehicle concerned was not a motor vehicle, one hundred dollars. ... (3) In determining whether an offence is a first, second, third or subsequent offence within the meaning of subsection (1) of this section, a previous offence for which the defendant was convicted more than five years before the commission of the offence under consideration shall not be taken into account, but a previous offence for which the defendant was convicted within the said period shall be so taken into account, whether the conviction took place before or after the commencement of this Act. … [emphasis added] On reflection, … I think that this is a case of a genuine ambiguity in the language. Clearly, as I have said, the offences are separate and distinct. A complaint charging the defendant with driving a vehicle or attempting to put a vehicle in motion whilst so much under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a drug as to be incapable of exercising effective control would, I think, be bad for duplicity. The offences being separate and distinct, the use of the expressions “second offence” and “third or subsequent offence” is ambiguous, because Parliament has not made it plain whether it means a second, third or subsequent offence of the same kind as the previous offence or whether it means that offences against s. 47(1)(a) and offences against s. 47(1)(b) are to be regarded as equivalent for the purpose of calculating the number of offences. ... In Bower’s Case [[1963] 1 All ER 437], Lord Parker drew a distinction between a provision which is ambiguous and a provision which is difficult to interpret, but he thought that a true ambiguity in a penal section must be resolved in the manner most favourable to the citizen if doubt still remains after the application of the proper canons of construction … I think there is here a true ambiguity which remains after the application of those canons and I think the principle cited by the Court of Criminal Appeal in the case of R. v. Chapman [[1931] 2 KB 606 at 609] from Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes and applied in that case is applicable also here: ‘Where an equivocal word or ambiguous sentence leaves a reasonable doubt of its meaning which the canons of interpretation fail to solve, the benefit of the doubt should be given to the subject and against the Legislature which has failed to explain itself.” Accordingly I hold that the conviction on 8th January, 1969 was not a previous conviction for the present purposes. ... ... It is not for the courts to question the policy which Parliament has thought fit to adopt in enacting legislation of this rigidity, but the case is not one in which any diffidence need be felt in invoking the principle referred to by Lord Hewart CJ in Chapman’s Case, if that principle is fairly applicable, as I think it is here. [original emphasis omitted; emphasis added in italics] Indeed, there is one consideration in favour of the former construction [referring to the construction eventually decided on]. Section 165 reads as follows:— “In determining whether an offence against a provision of this Act is a second or subsequent offence within the meaning of this Act, a like offence committed against an Act repealed by this Act shall be taken into account as an offence against the said provision.” I do not think driving under the influence and attempting to put a vehicle in motion while under the influence are now “like offences” or were so under the provisions of s. 48 of the previous legislation, the Road Traffic Act 1934–1960, which was in similar terms for the present purpose to s. 47(1) [of the Aust RTA]. “Like” here must mean not “allied” but “substantially the same” ... [original emphasis omitted; emphasis added in italics] … [C]ounsel submitted that driving and attempting to drive were two separate offences so that a conviction for driving whilst under the influence of drink could not be a “second or subsequent offence” if the offender’s earlier conviction or convictions were for attempting to drive whilst under the influence of drink, and vice versa. Even leaving aside the manifestly preposterous sense of this submission, it is plain from the drafting of s 67(1) [viz, the re-enacted s 67(1) RTA] that the words “second or subsequent offence” therein presupposes [sic] that the relevant earlier offence or offences may be of any description so long as it falls within s 67(1). [emphasis added] … [T]he rule in relation to the interpretation of penal statutes is predominantly concerned with those statutes where it is unclear because of the ambiguity whether an offence is created or not. Gibbs J [in Beckwith at 577] stated the rule as relating to situations where the statute may extend the category of criminal offences. [emphasis added] … [T]he cases of Beckwith and Bartlett were concerned with the issue as to whether or not an offence had or had not been committed, therefore one can see why in such a case any ambiguity should be construed in favour of the accused. However, in this situation the question is not whether an offence was committed but rather whether a previous conviction could be taken into account when convicting the respondent for committing the same offence. In that situation, resolving the ambiguity in favour of the accused would seem to defeat the very purpose underlying the creation of a specific penalty for a subsequent offence. Therefore that canon of interpretation does not seem to be applicable to the facts in this case and does not lend support to the interpretation found by [the judge in the court below]. [emphasis added] 41 Section 9A(1) of the [IA] requires the construction of written law to promote the purpose or object underlying the statute. In fact, it mandates that a construction promoting legislative purpose be preferred over one that does not promote such purpose or object: see Brady Coleman, “The Effect of Section 9A of the Interpretation Act on Statutory Interpretation in Singapore” [2000] Sing JLS 152 at 154. Accordingly, any common law principle of interpretation, such as the plain meaning rule and the strict construction rule, must yield to the purposive interpretation approach stipulated by s 9A(1) of the [IA]. All written law (penal or otherwise) must be interpreted purposively. Other common law principles come into play only when their application coincides with the purpose underlying the written law in question, or alternatively, when ambiguity in that written law persists even after an attempt at purposive interpretation has been properly made. ... 56 That statutorily stipulated principles of interpretation take precedence over the common law rule of strict construction in penal statutes has also been acknowledged by the Supreme Court of Canada in [R v Hasselwander [1993] 2 SCR 398] … Cory J stated at 413: [T]he rule of strict construction becomes applicable only when attempts at the neutral interpretation suggested by s 12 of the Interpretation Act still leave reasonable doubt as to the meaning or scope of the text of the statute. [emphasis added] I agree with the Canadian position that the common law rule of strict construction should play second fiddle to principles of interpretation prescribed by statute. By virtue of its mandatory nature, s 9A(1) of the [IA] must surely take precedence over the rule of strict construction, in the same way that it prevails over any other common law principles of interpretation. Hence, the operation of the strict construction rule must necessarily be limited to situations where ambiguity persists despite all attempts to interpret a penal provision in accordance with s 9A(1) of the [IA]. 57 To summarise, s 9A of the [IA] mandates that a purposive approach be adopted in the construction of all statutory provisions, and allows extrinsic material to be referred to, even where, on a plain reading, the words of a statute are clear and unambiguous. The purposive approach takes precedence over all other common law principles of interpretation. ... Purposive interpretation in accordance with s 9A(1) of the [IA] is the paramount principle of interpretation even with respect to penal statutes; it is only in cases where penal provisions remaining [sic] ambiguous notwithstanding all attempts at purposive interpretation that the common law strict construction rule may be invoked. [emphasis in bold italics in original; emphasis added in italics] 9A.—(1) In the interpretation of a provision of a written law, an interpretation that would promote the purpose or object underlying the written law (whether that purpose or object is expressly stated in the written law or not) shall be preferred to an interpretation that would not promote that purpose or object. (2) Subject to subsection (4), in the interpretation of a provision of a written law, if any material not forming part of the written law is capable of assisting in the ascertainment of the meaning of the provision, consideration may be given to that material — (a) to confirm that the meaning of the provision is the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the provision taking into account its context in the written law and the purpose or object underlying the written law; or (b) to ascertain the meaning of the provision when — (i) the provision is ambiguous or obscure; or (ii) the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of the provision taking into account its context in the written law and the purpose or object underlying the written law leads to a result that is manifestly absurd or unreasonable. … [emphasis added] 8 . If any person — ... (b) carries on business as a moneylender without holding a licence or, being licensed as a moneylender, carries on business as such in any name other other than his authorized name or at any place other than his authorized address or addresses; ... he shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance and on conviction shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars and for a second or subsequent offence shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment ... The penalties for illegal moneylending will be heavier under the proposed amendments. Section 8 of the Act will be amended to increase the maximum fine for such offences from $1,000 to $5,000. A second or subsequent offender is liable to imprisonment not exceeding 12 months or a maximum fine of $1,000 or both imprisonment and fine. Under the proposed amendment, the maximum fine will be raised to $5,000. ... My Ministry takes a serious view of illegal money-lending and will not hesitate to act against any person who is guilty of this offence. [emphasis added] Sir, this Bill amends the Moneylenders Act [viz, the MLA 1985] to increase the quantum of penalties for illegal moneylending and unwarranted harassment and intimidation of debtors, to create a new offence in that regard and to give greater powers to the Police under the Act. ... The number of cases of illegal moneylending reported to the Police has shown a marked increase over the last six years. In 1992 alone, a total of 700 cases were reported which is more than double the number of cases reported in 1987 and more than the total number of cases reported for 1987 and 1988. The figures for 1992 represent an alarming increase of more than 32% from the figures for 1991. The number of harassment cases involving the use of threats and force has also increased, sometimes even inflicting grievous hurt. Sir, we must act swiftly and decisively in sending a strong message to all illegal moneylenders that such activities will not be tolerated. The Bill seeks to do this by combining substantial increases in the penalties meted out for such activities together with greater powers of investigation and enforcement on the part of the Police. The existing legislation does not provide for adequate penalties to deter such illegal activities. The amendments will provide for an increase in the fines imposed on illegal moneylenders from the present maximum of $5,000 to fines of between $10,000 and $100,000 for the first-time individual offenders. In the case of repeat offenders, the fines have been increased to between $20,000 and $200,000 from the present maximum fine of $5,000. In addition, such offenders may also be jailed up to a maximum of 12 months. [emphasis added] Objective of Bill Sir, this Bill seeks to amend the Moneylenders Act [viz, the MLA 1985] by introducing higher penalties to curb the rise in illegal moneylending activities and related harassment cases. Background In 1993, we introduced a number of measures to deal with unlicensed moneylending activities. These included: (1) enhancing penalties for carrying out unlicensed moneylending activities and related harassment cases; ... Sir, the number of unlicensed moneylending and related harassment cases, however, continues to rise from some 1,500 cases in 1995 to almost 6,000 cases last year, ie, about a four-fold increase. ... In addition, the number of arrests made in unlicensed moneylending and related harassment cases increased by almost 20% in one year, from 330 arrests in 2003 to 393 arrests in 2004. ... The proposed amendments Sir, as for these amendments which are under consideration, Parliament should send a strong signal to loansharks that we will not tolerate the conduct of unlicensed moneylending activities, where exorbitant interest rates are charged and borrowers and even non-borrowers are harassed in their own homes. Therefore, this Bill seeks to increase the penalties for unlicensed moneylending under the Moneylenders Act as follows: First, the existing fines for offenders who carry out unlicensed moneylending activities or harassment cases will be doubled; ... Fourthly, repeat offenders of illegal moneylending will be subject to mandatory imprisonment, whilst repeat offenders of harassment where hurt to person or damage to property is caused will be subject to mandatory caning. … Conclusion In conclusion, Sir, these amendments are needed to send a strong signal that the Government has zero tolerance for unlicensed moneylending activities. The enhanced deterrent effect should also help stem the increase that we have seen in such activities. … [emphasis in italics in original; emphasis added in bold italics] Sir, last year in August, I informed this House that MHA [the Ministry of Home Affairs] was studying how to tackle this loanshark scourge more effectively. Setting out the various measures already in place, I said that we would tighten our laws to plug the gaps. Sir, this Bill is a result of our review. ... It also introduces new measures to strengthen the existing legal regime. These include enhancing existing penalties and, specifically, criminalising acts that contribute to or advance loanshark activities in Singapore. … ... Tougher penalties Sir, it does not appear that syndicate members and their runners are deterred by the current penalties. Hence, we will enhance our punishments to send a strong message of zero tolerance for all loansharking activities. ... Loansharks who are first-time offenders will be punished with a fine and an imprisonment term which are now made mandatory, as well as caning as an additional sentencing option. Repeat offenders will be subjected to even tougher penalties. These enhanced penalties aim to deter those who are tempted by the profitability of loansharking businesses and, hopefully, also make our youths and debtors think twice before succumbing to the easy way out offered by loansharks. This deterrent message forms an integral part of the overall solution in tackling the loanshark scourge. [emphasis in italics in original; emphasis added in bold italics] Purpose of the MLA [referring to the MLA 1985] 6 Before giving our reasons for our decision on the preliminary issues, it would be useful to restate the legislative purpose of the MLA and the relevant principles that have been established by case law on the scope of the MLA. It is trite that a court should give effect to the legislative purpose when interpreting an Act of Parliament. From the transcripts of parliamentary debates on the enactment and subsequent amendments of the MLA, it is clear that Parliament intended the MLA to be a social legislation designed to protect individuals who, being unable to borrow money from banks and other financial institutions, have to turn to unscrupulous unlicensed moneylenders who prey on people like them. For example, in Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report (2 September 1959) vol 11 at col 593, Mrs Seow Peck Leng made the following remarks: This Bill [referring to the Bill which was later enacted as the MLO 1959] is laudable for the fact that it protects the poor from the clutches of unscrupulous moneylenders. This Bill, in my opinion, should be implemented as soon as possible to ease the hardship of those already victimised and to prevent those who, because of financial difficulties, may be victimised in the future ... It is the very, very poor, Sir, who need protection most, who usually take loans of less than $100, and I think that they are the ones who should be protected ... [emphasis added] These expressions of legislative purpose have been reiterated whenever the MLA has come up for amendment in Parliament. For example, in Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report (28 May 1993) vol 61 at col 294, Prof S Jayakumar (the Minister for Law) said: Sir, this Bill amends the Moneylenders Act to increase the quantum of penalties for illegal moneylending ... Members, I am sure, would have read numerous accounts in the press of illegal moneylenders or loansharks resorting to the use of threats and violence in extracting payment from debtors for loans given. These loans were often at exorbitant rates of interest. They prey on debtors who, having no access to the usual channels of raising finance, had no recourse except to look to those loansharks for their funds. [emphasis in italics in original; emphasis added in bold italics] … There may, perhaps, be some element of caprice as a result of the learned Special Magistrate’s construction [which Bray CJ went on to uphold]. I assume for the present purposes that attempting to put a vehicle in motion under the influence is a lesser offence than driving it under the influence. Nevertheless, it might seem odd if a gaol sentence is mandatory on the second of two convictions for attempting to put the vehicle in motion under the influence and yet not for a conviction for driving under the influence after a conviction for attempting to put a vehicle in motion under the influence … On reflection, however, I think that this is a case of genuine ambiguity in the language. ... [original emphasis omitted; emphasis added in italics] (a) a conviction for assisting in unlicensed moneylending after a conviction for actually carrying on unlicensed moneylending; and (b) a conviction for actually carrying on unlicensed moneylending after a conviction for assisting in unlicensed moneylending. In order to target the many layers forming the organisation, anyone who contributes to or facilitates a loansharking operation, no matter what his role is, will not escape the wrath of the law. This will help us disrupt the syndicates. The Bill therefore amends section 14 [referring to the MLA 2008 as it originally stood] (which is on unlicensed moneylending) and section 28 (on harassing borrowers besetting his residence) to treat certain acts as assistance of unlicensed moneylending and abetment of the harassment offence, respectively. These acts include, for example, selling pre-paid SIM cards to loansharks, transporting runners to harassment targets, acting as a lookout for harassment runs and assisting the loansharks in verifying harassment jobs before paying the runners. Indeed, a 27-year old ex-runner said that he was paid $10 for every address that he verified that harassment had been conducted. Sir, these acts are specifically chosen as they reflect the current modus operandi adopted in loanshark harassments. Persons carrying out these acts are deemed to have assisted or abetted loansharking offences and will be liable to the same penalties. [emphasis added] 39 Re Green [[1936] 2 DLR 153] was followed by the Prince Edward Island Supreme Court in the case of Campbell … In that case, the appellant was convicted on a charge of possession of spirits in violation of a section of the Excise Act [viz, the Excise Act 1934, c 52 (Can)]. He was sentenced, as for second offence, to the minimum penalty of six months’ imprisonment and a fine and costs. He contended that the imposition of a second offence penalty was invalid on the ground that his previous offence was under the same section of the Act before it was amended. As in the instant case, the amendment in that case was also to enhance the penalty for the same offence. The appellant contended that the punishment for a second or subsequent offence under the re-enactment could not be imposed unless the previous offence was also under the re-enactment. 40 Campbell CJ referred to the decision of Chisholm CJ in Re Green … and held that the previous conviction under the enactment before its amendment could properly be taken into account for the purpose of deciding whether the appellant should be subject to punishment as for a second offence. 41 We would adopt the decision of these learned judges in these two Canadian cases in which a similar point arose for decision. We have no doubt at all that the previous conviction of the respondent in this case under s 67(1) of the Act [ie, the repealed s 67(1) RTA] should be taken into consideration in deciding whether the proper punishment in his case should be as for a second or subsequent offence. We hold that the punishment in this case should have been as for a second offence. [emphasis added] Sections 164 and 169 of the Excise Act [viz, the Excise Act 1934, c 52 (Can)] can be readily analyzed into three essential components: (a) The ingredients of the offence; (b) the punishment for first offence; (c) the punishment for second offence or subsequent offence. So far as (a) and (b) are concerned the re-enactment of 1948 leaves the law precisely the same as it previously was. The sole purpose of the repeal and re-enactment was to make it clear th[at] (c) both fine and imprisonment with hard labour must be imposed in the first instance on a second or subsequent offender. So far, therefore, as the nature of the offence and the punishment for a first offence are concerned, the repeal and re-enactment must be construed as an affirmation and continuance of the former law, or as Lord Esher said [in Ex p Todd, Re Ashcroft (1887) 19 QBD 186 at 195], so far as the re-enactment is a repetition of the repealed section, it must apply to transactions which took place before the commencement of the new Act. [original emphasis omitted; emphasis added in italics] The principle so enunciated by the Supreme Court of Canada [in Trans-Canada Ins Co v Winter [1935] 1 DLR 272] and by the Court of Appeal of England [in Ex p Todd, Re Ashcroft (1887) 19 QBD 186], is admirably stated in a reference to United States cases made by Chisholm C.J. of the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, in Re Green, 65 Can. C.C. 353 at p. 355, [1936] 2 D.L.R. 153 at p. 155, 10 M.P.R. 335 at pp. 338–9: “That the repeal and simultaneous re-enactment of substantially the same statutory provisions must be construed, not as an implied repeal of the original statute, but as an affirmance and continuance of the statute in uninterrupted operation.” [emphasis added] 34 What is before us is simply whether a conviction under s 67(1) before its “repeal” [ie, a conviction under the repealed s 67(1) RTA] can properly be taken into account when applying the subsection after its “repeal” [ie, when applying the re-enacted s 67(1) RTA]. The issue is one of construction, of ascertaining the intention of Parliament when enacting the new provision. 35 We have no doubt at all that what Parliament intended to do was simply to enhance the punishment for persons found guilty of driving while under the influence of alcohol [or] drugs. The offence dealt with by the amended subsection [viz, the re-enacted s 67(1) RTA] is the same as that under the old subsection [viz, the repealed s 67(1) RTA]. What was changed was the punishment prescribed for persons convicted of the offence. The Legislature was particularly intent on dealing severely with repeat offenders. Rather than prescribing a maximum fine and imprisonment term and leaving it to the courts to impose an appropriate punishment up to the maximum, Parliament prescribed the minimum as well. This indicates beyond doubt an intention to see that such criminal conduct is treated with the required degree of seriousness by the courts. If the argument for the respondent [viz, that his previous conviction under the repealed s 67(1) RTA did not count as a prior offence for the purposes of the re-enacted s 67(1) RTA] is correct, it would lead to the absurd result that a person no matter how many times he has been convicted in the past under the old subsection would be treated as a first offender if he is convicted for the first time under the new subsection. This would obviously defeat the intention of the Legislature. [emphasis added] 236. Every one who drives a motor vehicle or has the care or control of a motor vehicle, whether it is in motion or not, having consumed alcohol in such a quantity that the proportion thereof in his blood exceeds 80 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable to a fine of not less than fifty dollars and not more than one thousand dollars or to imprisonment for not more than six months, or both. [emphasis added] 236. (1) Every one who drives a motor vehicle or has the care or control of a motor vehicle, whether it is in motion or not, having consumed alcohol in such a quantity that the proportion thereof in his blood exceeds 80 milligrams of alcohol in 100 millilitres of blood, is guilty of an indictable offence or an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable (a) for a first offence, to a fine of not more than two thousand dollars and not less than fifty dollars or to imprisonment for six months or to both; (b) for a second offence, to imprisonment for not more than one year and not less than fourteen days; and (c) for each subsequent offence, to imprisonment for not more than two years and not less than three months ... 236.1. Where a person who is guilty of an offence under section 234, 234.1, 235 or 236 has previously been convicted of an offence under any of those sections, that conviction or those convictions shall be deemed to be, for the purpose of determining the punishment to which the person is subject under any of those sections, a first or second offence, as the case may be. [emphasis added] I take the same view of the conviction of [the offender] in 1975. It was in no way affected by the subsequent substitution of s. 236. It remains as an unaltered fact. Nothing has been added to or taken away from that offence or its penalty. Putting aside the doctrine of retrospectivity as an element in the construction of the substituted section, there is much support for the opinion of Tallis J. [viz, the judge in the court below] that on the proper construction of s. 236(1)(b) the earlier offence of 1975 invokes its operation. He himself relied on the judgment of Spence J. (then of the High Court of Ontario) in Regina v. Lelievre, [1956] O.W.N. 198, 115 C.C.C. 404, and on the judgment of Campbell C.J. in Campbell … In the latter case Campbell C.J. relied, amongst other authority, upon the canon of construction stated in Re Green; Re Jamel, 10 M.P.R. 335 at 338, 65 C.C.C. 353, [1936] 2 D.L.R. 153 (C.A.): “That the repeal and simultaneous re-enactment of substantially the same statutory provisions must be construed, not as an implied repeal of the or[i]ginal statute, but as an affirmation and continuance of the statute in uninterrupted operation.” [emphasis added] It is urged that the provisions in the substituted section that an accused may be charged either on indictment or with an offence punishable on summary conviction with liability to more severe penalties on a first offence sufficiently separate it from the old section. I do not think so. The offence is the same. Parliament has stated that for the future the commission of the same offence must be dealt with more rigorously in the public interest. Any person who, when driving or attempting to drive a motor vehicle on a road or other public place, is under the influence of drink or of a drug to such an extent as to be incapable of having proper control of such vehicle, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both. [original emphasis omitted; emphasis added in italics] Any person who, when driving or attempting to drive a motor vehicle on a road or other public place, is under the influence of drink or of a drug to such an extent as to be incapable of having proper control of such vehicle shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $1,000 and not more than $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine of not less than $3,000 and not more than $10,000 and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months. [emphasis added] When any offence under subsection (1) [viz, the offence of employing a foreign worker without a valid work permit] committed by a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. [emphasis added] Where an offence under this Act or any regulations made thereunder is committed by a body corporate, and it is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any act or default on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. [emphasis added] 46 Having perused the relevant sections of the 1991 as well as the 1995 Act [viz, the original EFWA 1991 and the amended EFWA 1991 respectively], I agreed with the submissions of the DPP. The only difference between the 1991 and the 1995 Acts is that the 1995 Act has incorporated into it the amendments made to the 1991 Act by the Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Act (Act 37 of 1995). So far as the offence in the instant case is concerned, its definition has remained the same save for the following changes: (a) In the 1991 Act, the offence of employing a worker without a valid work permit by the body corporate must be attributable to the neglect of the accused. In the 1995 Act, the offence by the body corporate must be attributable to the act or default of the accused. I do not propose to go into an exhaustive or in-depth examination of the term “default” in the context of the 1995 Act. Suffice it to say that in interpreting the term, it is useful to keep in mind the natural and ordinary meaning of the word “default” as a working guide, albeit with the qualification that this is not exhaustive. For present purposes, it suffices to note that one of the meanings of default as defined in the Oxford English Dictionary is: “Failure to act; neglect”. It is clear therefore that the phrase “act or default” is wider than and includes the term “neglect”. … [emphasis added] It was clear from the above comparison that the sole effect of the amendments to the offence in question between 1991 and 1995 was to broaden the ambit of the offence. In other words, the same facts which would support a conviction under s 5(6) read with s 5(1) and punishable under s 5(4) of the 1991 Act [viz, the original EFWA 1991] would also sustain a conviction under s 16D read with s 5(1) and punishable under s 5(4) of the 1995 Act [viz, the amended EFWA 1991]. As such, I did not see why the accused’s conviction under s 5(6) read with s 5(1) and punishable under s 5(4) of the 1991 Act should not count as a previous conviction under the 1995 Act, so as to make the accused’s current conviction under s 16D read with s 5(1) and punishable under s 5(4) of the 1995 Act a second conviction which would attract the sentence of mandatory imprisonment under s 5(4)(b)(i) of the 1995 Act. Clearly, the intention of Parliament in re-enacting s 5(4)(b)(i) of the 1995 Act was to ensure stricter punishment for individuals who repeatedly committed the offence in question, and it would be an absurd denial of Parliament’s intention if in considering whether the accused’s current conviction was a second conviction, the courts were to ignore his past conviction on the mere basis that … he had been convicted under an earlier edition of the Act which defined the offence in question more narrowly than the 1995 Act. I therefore allowed the Prosecution’s appeal against sentence. [emphasis added] Prohibition of employment of foreign employee without work pass 5.—(1) No person shall employ a foreign employee unless the foreign employee has a valid work pass. ... (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall — (a) be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and (b) on a second or subsequent conviction — (i) in the case of an individual, be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than one month and not more than 12 months and also be liable to a fine not exceeding $15,000; and (ii) in the case of a body corporate, be punished with a fine not exceeding $30,000. … (8) For the purposes of this section — ... (b) for the avoidance of doubt, where a person has been convicted of an offence under subsection (6), and he has on a previous occasion been convicted for contravening section 5(1) of the Employment of Foreign Workers Act in force immediately before the date of commencement of the Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Act 2007, the first-mentioned conviction shall be considered a second or subsequent conviction under subsection (6) … ... [emphasis added] Section 96. Transitional provisions on repeal, amendment etc (1) Where an Act contains substantive, amending or repealing enactments, it commonly also includes transitional provisions which regulate the coming into operation of those enactments and modify their effect during the period of transition. (2) Where the Act fails to include such provisions expressly, the court is required to draw such inferences as to the intended transitional arrangements as, in the light of the interpretive criteria, it considers Parliament to have intended. ... Section 243. The saving A saving is a provision the intention of which is to narrow the effect of the enactment to which it refers so as to preserve some existing legal rule or right from its operation. ... … Very often a saving is unnecessary, but is put in ex abundanti cautela to quieten doubts. … An unsatisfactory feature of savings, and a reason why good drafters resist the addition of unnecessary savings, is that they may throw doubt on matters it is intended to preserve, but which are not mentioned in the saving. ... [emphasis added] Protection against retrospective criminal laws and repeated trials 11.—(1) No person shall be punished for an act or omission which was not punishable by law when it was done or made, and no person shall suffer greater punishment for an offence than was prescribed by law at the time it was committed. [emphasis added] (2) LIMITS TO LEGISLATIVE COMPETENCE A legislative body which operates under a written constitution derives its legislative competence and powers from the constitution itself. It cannot therefore promulgate laws which are contrary to the constitution, unless it complies with the special procedure for constitutional amendment. … It is said that a retrospective effect must not be given to a penal statute. No doubt; one can hardly imagine the Legislature punishing a man for having done an act which at the time of its commission was a perfectly innocent act. But to prescribe punishment for an old offender in case in the future he persists in his crime is quite another matter. The offence in question was committed since the Act [viz, the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1912 (c 20) (UK)]. The Act says that a man guilty in the future may, if he has already been guilty in the past, be punished as he could not have been before the Act. There is nothing wrong in that. No man has such a vested interest in his past crimes and their consequences as would entitle him to insist that in no future legislation shall any regard whatever be had to his previous history. [emphasis added] Unlicensed moneylending 14 . … ... (3A) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), a person assists in a contravention of subsection (1) if — (a) he collects or demands payment of a loan on behalf of a person whom he knows or has reasonable grounds to believe is carrying on a business in contravention of section 5(1); (b) he receives, possesses, conceals or disposes of any funds or other property, or engages in a banking transaction relating to any funds, on behalf of any person knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that — (i) the person is carrying on a business in contravention of section 5(1); and (ii) either the funds are (or are intended to be) disbursed as a loan by that person, or the funds or property is repayment of a loan made by the person … [emphasis added] Turning then to the question of what the appropriate sentence would be in the circumstances of the present case, in determining the fines to be imposed on the appellant, I took into account two competing considerations. On one hand, the fines had to be of an amount which the appellant could reasonably pay given his financial means. On the other hand, the fines had to be fixed at a level which would be sufficiently high to achieve the dual objectives of deterrence, in terms of deterring both the appellant and other importers from evading GST [goods and services tax] on imported goods in future, and retribution, in the sense of reflecting society’s abhorrence of the offence under s 130(1)(a) of the Customs Act. In particular, importers and other persons who might be tempted to commit the same offence should not be given the impression that they may be let off lightly for their misdeeds if they are detected simply because they lack the financial ability to pay the fines which may be imposed under s 130(1)(i) of the Act. Bearing these considerations in mind, I concluded that a fine of five times the amount of GST payable in respect of each charge would be just and appropriate in light of the appellant’s limited financial means, the totality principle of sentencing, the aggravated nature of the offences in question, and the deterrent and retributive aspects of the penalty under s 130(1)(i) of the Customs Act. ... [emphasis added] As loanshark syndicates evolve their modus operandi to take on more characteristics of organised criminal groups, it is no longer sufficient to deal with loansharking as discrete acts of runners and harassers. We need measures that can cripple them, that is, disgorge them of their ill-gotten gains, choke the supply of funds and availability of foot soldiers, target the irresponsible borrowers and take loansharks out of the system for as long as we need to. Thus, this Bill allows us to deal with loanshark syndicates as criminal organisations, extend beyond the frontline to target financiers and masterminds, disrupt the flow of money and resources and ensure that syndicate leaders do not escape the bite of our laws by directing local operatives from the haven of other countries. To cripple the many layers of a loanshark syndicate, anyone who contributes to or facilitates a loansharking operation will attract the wrath of the law. [emphasis added] In our view, a punitive fine should not be added to a term of imprisonment which a sentencer considers is itself adequate punishment for the offence except in rare cases where, for example, even the maximum permitted custodial sentence is considered to be inadequate. In general I take the view that a sentence should be either a sentence of imprisonment or a sentence of fine and not both. Again speaking generally cases in which a sentence of imprisonment and fine might, in my opinion, fairly be imposed are cases of serious revenue offences and in the case of offences which are not mala per se but where it has become apparent that sentences of fine only on other persons in the area in respect of similar offence[s] in the recent past have been insufficient to act as a deterrent. If a term of imprisonment is imposed upon an accused in default, that is not to be regarded as an additional punishment. It is simply the means by which the accused is encouraged to surrender his profits or to pay his debt to society. However, when imprisonment is coupled with a fine, and a term is fixed in default, a court should consider the overall sentence to which the accused may become subject: R v Savundra (1968) 52 Cr App R 637, 646 . The court should ensure that in the event of default the total sentence to be served is not disproportionate to the offence: R v Green and Green (1984) 6 Cr App R (S) 329, 332 . Such sentences, inevitably, will be consecutive to one another. [emphasis added] Turning to the appeals against sentence and dealing first with Savundra’s appeal, there can be no doubt that he was the architect of these gross frauds and played the chief part in carrying them out. Equally, there is no doubt that by these frauds he enriched himself by many hundreds of thousands of pounds at the expense of the policyholders who had trusted the Fire, Auto and Marine Insurance Company Limited with their money and who, as a result of the frauds, lost large sums which many of them could ill afford. This was fraud on an enormous scale. Moreover, this appellant did not stop short of uttering forged certificates for over £500,000 of stock on one occasion and over £800,000 worth of shares on another for the purpose of covering up his defalcations. Having regard to the gravity of these offences, this Court does not consider that a sentence of ten years’ imprisonment would have been any too long. The learned judge sentenced this appellant to eight years’ imprisonment and he fined him in all £50,000 and in default of paying that £50,000 he sentenced him to a further two years’ imprisonment. [emphasis added] We have been assisted by Mr. Corkery [counsel for the second appellant] taking us through a fairly elaborate citation of authority. I do not propose to refer to all those authorities, but I summarise their effect as follows. If it cannot be shown that an offender has made a profit out of a transaction and has no means to pay a fine, it is not right to impose a fine in addition to a prison sentence (see Maund (1980) 2 Cr.App.R.(S.) 289). If it is apparent to the court that, as the result of a crime, the accused has received a large financial benefit and if there is reason to suppose that some of that financial benefit is still available to him, it is perfectly proper to impose a fine in addition to a term of immediate imprisonment. But, nevertheless, when imposing the fine and fixing the alternative penalty to be served in default of payment of the fine, the court should have regard to the overall term of imprisonment that will be served in such circumstances. The court should ensure that the overall term of imprisonment to be served in such a contingency will not be disappropriate to the offence itself: Savundra (1968) 52 Cr.App.R. 637; Lot Carter (1977) 67 Cr.App.R. 404; and,Benmore (1983) 5 Cr.App.R.(S.) 468 . [emphasis added] (a) The mandatory fine should ordinarily be pegged closer to the minimum of $30,000 unless: (i) the offender has reaped illicit profits which should be disgorged; and/or (ii) even the maximum permitted custodial sentence is, in rare cases, inadequate to reflect the full extent of the offender’s criminality. (b) Where the offender is clearly unable to pay the mandatory $30,000 minimum fine, the default imprisonment sentence imposed should not be substantial.