The Plaintiff is a company incorporated in Singapore. It manufactures and trades in petrochemical and related products including phthalic acid (“PA”) which it manufactures at a plant at 36 Tuas Road (“the Plant”). PA is an industrial chemical needed in the manufacture of flexible PVC products, alkyd resin, dyes, pigments and unsaturated polyester resin. The Plaintiff sells PA in both its molten and solid forms. The 1 st Defendant is a Singapore-incorporated insurance company while the 2 nd Defendant is a company incorporated in Japan that is registered as a general insurer in Singapore under the Insurance Act (Cap 142, 2002 Rev Ed). The Plaintiff entered into a Fire Industrial All Risks Insurance Policy (Policy No MSD/FIAR/06-001865) (“the Policy”) with the 1 st and 2 nd Defendants (collectively referred to as “the Defendants”) as co-insurers. The 1 st and 2 nd Defendants were liable under the Policy in the proportion of 70% to 30% respectively. The Policy was issued on 3 May 2006 and covered, inter alia, loss and damage to property of the Plaintiff. The period of coverage was from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007. An endorsement to the Policy (Endorsement No MSD/FIAR/06-001865-02) (“the Endorsement”) dated 7 June 2006 was also issued and applied with effect from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007.
The hearing before me concerned a trial on preliminary issues of law. The Plaintiff filed its Writ of Summons on 23 April 2010 to claim an indemnity under the Policy for two incidents which occurred at the Plant. On 21 February 2012, the Plaintiff applied by Summons No 805 of 2012 (“Sum 805/2012”) for a trial on preliminary issues of law under O 33 r 2 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed). The Defendants consented to Sum 805/2012. The preliminary issues to be tried before me are set out verbatim as follows: (a) Whether, on a proper construction of item 2(ii) of [the Endorsement] under the [the Policy], both issued by the 1 st and 2 nd Defendants on 7 June 2006 and 3 May 2006 respectively, the Defendants are not liable to indemnify the Plaintiff for any loss or damage to the catalysts in the reactor tubes of the Plaintiff’s [PA] Reactor D-14, under the circumstances pleaded at paragraphs 8 to 13 of the Statement of Claim (Amendment No 1) filed on 1 March 2012; (b) Whether, in the circumstances of the present case in which a cold shut down of the Plaintiff’s PA plant was implemented and having regard to:- (i) the factual observations made in the reports rendered by the experts and/or consultants and/or advisors engaged by the Defendants; (ii) the agreed facts as set out in Schedule I annexed [to Sum 805/2012]; and (iii) the agreed factual assumptions as set out in Schedule II annexed [to Sum 805/2012]: (A) the loss, destruction and/or damage arising from the solidification of the molten PA which was in the PA storage tank T-501 on 7 June 2006 (“the Residual PA”) can be said to: (I) constitute “unforeseen and sudden physical loss or damage”, so as to be covered under Section I of the Policy; and/or (II) be caused by or arise from “change in temperature” or “inadequate operation of...heating system”, so as to be excluded from coverage by virtue of General Exclusion 4(d) of the Policy. (B) the loss, destruction and/or damage arising from the implosion of the Tank can be said to: (I) constitute “unforeseen and sudden physical loss or damage”, so as to be covered under Section I of the Policy; and/or (II) be caused by or arise from “change in temperature” or “inadequate operation of...heating system”, so as to be excluded from coverage by virtue of General Exclusion 4(d) of the Policy. (c) Whether the PA in the Tank constitutes “property being worked on”, so that the loss, destruction and/or damage caused by the solidification of the Residual PA is excluded from coverage under the Policy by virtue of sub-clause (k) under the heading “Property Excluded Under Section I” of the Policy.
Two incidents occurred at the Plant that became the subject of this Suit. I now refer to the first incident. Crude PA is manufactured in the Plaintiff’s PA Reactor D-14 (“the Reactor”) in the Plant. After the crude PA is purified and distilled, it is transferred and stored in the PA storage tank T-501 (“the Tank”) which is heated at 150ºC to keep the PA in a molten state. Dr J H Burgoyne & Partners (International) Ltd (“Burgoynes”), a firm instructed by the Defendants’ loss adjusters, Cunningham Lindsey (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“Cunningham”), to investigate the two incidents, observed in a report dated 1 August 2006 that nitrogen gas was continuously introduced into the Tank to displace the oxygen moisture in the Tank and prevent formation of acids. The nitrogen gas left the Tank through a vent line (which was a steel pipe of about 2” in diameter at the roof of the Tank) and it was then ventilated into the atmosphere. On 8 May 2006, a cooling circuit control valve in the Plant malfunctioned. The Reactor overheated and shut down automatically. The Reactor contained 9,733 tubes filled with catalysts, specifically aluminium carriers containing vanadium pentoxide. The catalysts were exposed to excessive heat, melted and were damaged. According to the Plaintiff, investigations were carried out on the Reactor and the Plant with the assistance of PA Consultants GmbH, a company specialising in PA operations. The Plaintiff claimed that on 22 June 2006, Dr Supot Kalanon (the Plaintiff’s representative), PA Consultants GmbH, Cunningham and Burgoynes agreed that the tubes should be drained of catalysts and refilled. The Plaintiff entered into an agreement dated 18 September 2006 with Hudson Delphi Engineering & Construction Pte Ltd (“Hudson”) to drain and refill the tubes. The Plaintiff paid Hudson S$1,952,116.90 for this work. The Plaintiff now claims an indemnity for the amount paid to Hudson and business interruption costs, less US$600,000 (being an interim payment made by the Defendants to the Plaintiff without admission of liability).
I turn now to the second incident. Although production of the crude PA ceased after the first incident, the Plaintiff continued to purify and distil the crude PA that was already produced. The purification and distillation process was completed and most of the purified molten PA was transported out of the Plant by 31 May 2006. The Plaintiff then decided to implement a cold shut down of the Plant. Before doing so, the Plaintiff had to transfer the molten PA in the Tank to a tank truck with a heating facility to keep the molten PA from solidifying. It was not disputed that the molten PA could not be discharged completely from the Tank because of the location of the outlet from the Tank, and it was expected that some molten PA would be left in the Tank (ie the Residual PA). The maximum amount of Residual PA was expected to be no more than 100 metric tonnes. The parties agreed that the Residual PA could only be removed by lowering the temperature in the Tank to below 131ºC to solidify the molten PA. The PA flakes would then be dug out manually from the Tank and sold. The equipment gauge reflected the amount of Residual PA in the Tank as 100 metric tonnes. The Plaintiff relied on the reading on the equipment gauge and turned off the heating system of the Tank on 4 June 2006. However the equipment gauge malfunctioned and the actual amount of Residual PA was 476 metric tonnes instead of 100 metric tonnes. The solidified Residual PA was dug out and sold. The Plaintiff now claims, inter alia, the difference in the proceeds it could have obtained if the additional 376 metric tonnes of Residual PA was extracted before the cold shut down and sold in molten form rather than solid form. Molten PA fetches a higher price per unit than solidified PA.
The Tank was also damaged. On 7 June 2006, the Plaintiff turned off the entire heating system of Tank including the heating system for the vent line in implementing the cold shut down. It is assumed for present purposes that the heating system of the Tank could not be shut down partially so as to keep the heating system for the vent line operating. The gases within the Tank contracted as they cooled. Under normal circumstances, the vent line would have allowed gas to be drawn into the Tank to prevent negative pressure from being generated within the Tank during the cooling process. However, due to the shutting down of the heating system of the Tank, the temperature in the vent line dropped below the melting temperature of PA vapour. PA vapour in the Tank and vent line solidified and blocked the vent line. Excessive negative pressure thus built up inside the Tank and it buckled inwards. The Plaintiff now claims the costs of dismantling and repairing the Tank.
The Defendants claim that they are not liable to indemnify the Plaintiff for loss and/or damage to the catalysts in the 9,733 tubes because such loss and/or damage is excluded under item 2(ii) of the Endorsement. The Endorsement provides that: The Policy is extended to include any unforeseen and sudden physical loss destruction or damage (hereinafter called Damaged or Damage) to Property Insured necessitating repair or replacement due to causes such as defects in casting material, faulty design... or any other cause not specifically excluded hereinafter. 2. The Insurer(s) will not indemnify the Insured for: ... ii) loss of/or damage to belt, ropes, wires, chains, rubber tyres, dies or exchangeable tools, engraved cylinders, objects made of glass, felts, sieves or fabrics, operating media eg lubricants, fuels catalysts.
As for the loss, destruction and/or damage arising from the solidification of the Residual PA, the Defendants claim that they are not liable to indemnify the Plaintiff for three reasons. The first argument was that such loss and/or damage was not unforeseen and sudden within the meaning of Section I of the Policy. Section I of the Policy provides that: If during the Period of Insurance the Property Insured or any part thereof shall be lost destroyed or damaged by unforeseen and sudden physical loss or damage other than those specified in the Exclusions the Company will pay to the Insured the value of the property at the time of the happening of the los or destruction or the amount of such damage or at its option reinstate or repair such property or any part thereof.
I agree with Ms Tay. The words of Section I of the Policy state that it is the loss or damage that must be sudden and unforeseen, rather than the cause thereof. Loss or damage which results from an unforeseen cause may (more often than not) be also unforeseen, but the nature of the loss or damage that results may itself not be sudden. It is the nature of the physical loss or damage that is the focus of the inquiry in this case. I agree with the view of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in Vee H Aviation Pty Ltd v Australian Aviation Underwriting Pool Pty Ltd (No SC 61 of 1995) (“Vee H Aviation”) in which it drew a distinction between the nature and cause of the loss or damage. In Vee H Aviation, the policy provided that the defendant would indemnify the plaintiff for the costs of rectification arising from a “Breakdown” of the plaintiff’s aircraft engine. Breakdown was defined as “sudden and unforeseen damage resulting from (a) Breaking seizing or burning out of Aircraft Engine parts, vibration, ... excessive electrical current or voltage, failure of insulation, short circuit or arcing... (b) Failure of protecting, measuring or regulative devices or failure of or failing in connected equipment of any Aircraft Engine.” The Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory noted (at [17]) that: In the present policy, it is the damage that must be sudden. The definition clearly contemplates that the cause of the damage may be something that has been taking place over a period of time, such as the wearing out or loosening of a part, or fatigue. ... The definition of Breakdown used in this particular policy required that the damage, as distinct from the cause of it, should be both sudden and unforeseen. ... (a) The High Court (Kuala Lumpur) in Bina Puri Sdn Bhd v MUI Continental Insurance Bhd (formerly known as MUI Continental Insurance Sdn Bhd) [2010] 1 MLJ 347 (“Bina Puri”) at [88]–[92] and the Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa in African Products (Pty) Ltd v AIG South Africa Limited [2009] ZASCA 27 (“African Products”) at [24]–[25] were also of the view that where the words “sudden and unforeseen physical loss or damage ... from any cause” are used, the court examines the nature of the loss or damage separately from its cause. The Plaintiff relied on the Supreme Court of Washington’s decision in Anderson & Middleton Lumber Company v Lumbermen’s Mutual Casualty Company 333 Pacific Report (2d) 938 (1959) (“Anderson”) in arguing that there was nothing in the Policy to suggest that it was not intended to cover loss or damage resulting from a gradual cause. I am of the view that Anderson does not support and in fact undermines the Plaintiff’s argument. The policy in Anderson protected the insured against loss occasioned by an accident, “defined as sudden and accidental breaking of the bandsaw wheel, or any part thereof...”. The Supreme Court of Washington focused on the nature of the breaking and cracking of the wheel and considered whether it was “sudden” rather than the cause of the breakage. The insured in that case also argued that the contract was concerned with “the result, and not... the cause of the accident”. Mr Ling contends that “deductibles applicable to Section 1 of the Policy set out in the Policy Schedule include loss in respect of ‘Fraudulent or Dishonest Act of Employees’... which can hardly be considered to be an instantaneous event”. This argument does not detract from fact that coverage under Section I of the Policy pertains to unforeseen and sudden physical loss or damage.
The word “unforeseen” is commonly understood to mean “unexpected” or “unanticipated”. The parties agreed that the inquiry is a subjective one, ie whether the loss or damage was foreseen by the insured. Although courts in some cases appear to use “unforeseen” and “unforeseeable” interchangeably (see example, Bina Puri at [20]), this can be misleading as “unforeseeable”, unlike “unforeseen”, is an objective term. The New South Wales Court of Appeal drew a distinction between “unforeseen” and “unforeseeable” in L’Union Assurances de Paris IARD v Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd [1995] NSWCA 539: “Unforeseen” does not mean “unforeseeable” either as a matter of language or law. The former is subjective and speaks of the mind of the insured. The latter is objective and speaks of the object of perception or thought. ... The word “sudden” was, of course, placed in the contract for a purpose. Is it more reasonable to assume that it was placed there to show an intent to exclude coverage of a break which did not happen instantaneously, or to exclude coverage of a break which was unforeseen and therefore unavoidable? ... A contract of insurance should be construed to effectuate its purpose... The cause [of the loss or damage] is not, nor is the result, one which not is claimed is excluded. It is only contended that the result in order to be within the coverage of the policy, must have happened instantaneously. We do not so construe the word “sudden,” when its primary meaning, in common usage, is not “instantaneous” but rather “unforeseen and unexpected.” “Sudden”, to my mind, is to be contrasted with “gradual. Synonyms are “abrupt” and “quick”. It is often a connotation of the word that the event it describes should be “unforeseen” or “unexpected”, or “without warning” but those words, alone or in conjunction, do not express its denotation. An event may be sudden even though it is foreseen and expected. ... The definition of Breakdown used in this particular policy required that the damage, as distinct from the cause of it, should be both sudden and unforeseen. That requirement is not tautologous. The words have different meanings, and the requirements that they express are cumulative.
The Defendants argued that the solidification of the Residual PA was not unforeseen and that the Plaintiff knew and intended to solidify the Residual PA in the Tank by implementing a cold shut down (and thus lowering the temperature in Tank). As for the presence of the additional 376 metric tonnes of Residual PA, Ms Tay argued that it is the type of damage or loss that must be “unforeseen and sudden” rather than the extent of the damage or loss. The 376 metric tonnes of Residual PA only went to the extent of the loss. She relied on Henry A Kuckenberg, Harriet Kuckenberg and Lawrence Kuckenberg, Doing Business as Kuckenberg Construction Co v Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company 226 F 2d 225 (9th Cir, 1955) (“Hartford”) for that proposition. The insured in that case was engaged to construct a highway along a mountainside. The policy protected the insured against liability for damage “caused by accident”. As part of the operations, the insured had to carry out extensive blasting of the rocky slope and remove trees, boulders and masses of rubble. Substantial damage to a nearby railroad line was a “normal and anticipated consequence” of the operations. The blasting dislodged much more rock and dirt than the insured calculated. Attempts to scoop up loose material also caused huge boulders to roll down and damage the railroad line. The contractor claimed that the damage that resulted was extraordinary and different from the normal and anticipated damage. The United States Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit rejected this argument and held at 226–227 that: [It was] at least an unimpeachable finding that substantial damage of the very type which occurred was a normal and probable consequence of such blasting and clearing as the contractor undertook. ... It is true that courts construing insurance contracts have differed in judgment whether the fact that the responsible cause is an intentional act suffices in itself to preclude the resulting injury from being ‘accidental’ damage... But if, in addition to being intentional, the harmful conduct is reasonably calculated to cause substantial damage of the very sort that occurs, all courts seem to recognise that the damage is outside the insured risk. The fact that the injury is more extensive than had been anticipated does not suffice to make the damage accidental.
As for the damage to the Tank, it was not seriously disputed that the loss and/or damage was unforeseen. The Defendants’ arguments were instead focused on the loss and/or damage not being sudden. Cunningham stated in its letter dated 13 June 2006 to the Defendants that “[o]n Wednesday 7 th June 2006, at about midday, personnel noticed that [the Tank] was starting to buckle, this occurring quite rapidly, such that partial caving in of the 10 metre diameter [walls of the Tank] resulted. This was arrested by introducing liquid nitrogen, but not before significant damage had occurred...”. Cunningham added in its preliminary report of 26 June 2006 that although “liquid nitrogen used for blanketing [the Tank] was increased... [the Tank] continued to sustain structural damage”. The Defendants argued that “sudden” connotes a certain degree of instantaneity and the deformation of the Tank, although rapid, took place incrementally and progressively. I do not think that the word “sudden” necessarily requires the damage to be “instantaneous”. Although it is not clear whether the Tank continued to buckle over a period of time, it appears that the initial caving in of the Tank happened rapidly. In my view, the Plaintiff has shown that the loss and/or damage to the Tank was “sudden”.
The Defendants’ next argument in relation to the loss or damage arising from the solidification of the Residual PA and the implosion of the Tank was that such loss was caused by or arose from a “change in temperature” or “inadequate operation of heating system” and was thus excluded from coverage by General Exclusion 4(d). General Exclusion 4(d) of the Policy states: 4. This Policy does not cover any loss destruction or damage (other than by Fire or Explosion) caused by or arising from: ... (d) change in temperature or humidity failure or inadequate operation (or any valation in temperature of an air-conditioning cooling or heating system)
The question is whether the loss or damage arising in the case of the Residual PA and the Tank was caused by or arose from a “change in temperature” or “inadequate operation” of the heating system of the Tank. It is established that in the context of insurance contracts, the words “caused by” and “arising from” mean the “proximate” cause (Leyland Shipping Company, Limited v Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society, Limited [1918] AC 350 (“Leyland Shipping”) at 365 and 469). The High Court in Kin Yuen Co Pte Ltd v Lombard Insurance Co Ltd and others [1994] SGHC 83 (“Kin Yuen”) (at [41]) endorsed the following passages by Lord Shaw of Dunfermline in Leyland Shipping (at 369): To treat proxima causa as the cause which is nearest in time is out of the question. Causes are spoken of as if they were as distinct from one another as beads in a row or links in a chain, but – if this metaphysical topic has to be referred to – it is not wholly so. The chain of causation is a handy expression, but the figure is inadequate. Causation is not a chain, but a net. At each point influences, forces, events, precedent and simultaneous, meet; and the radiation from each point extends infinitely. At the point where these various influences meet it is for the judgment as upon a matter of fact to declare which of the causes thus joined at the point of effect was the proximate and which was the remote cause. ... The cause which is truly proximate is that which is proximate in efficiency. That efficiency may have been preserved although other causes may meantime have sprung up which have yet not destroyed it, or truly impaired it, and it may culminate in a result of which it still remains the real efficient cause to which the event can be ascribed.
In contrast, I am satisfied that the damage to the Tank was caused by a “change in temperature” and would thus be excluded from coverage by General Exclusion 4(d) of the Policy. Cunningham stated in its preliminary report dated 26 June 2006 that: [t]he cooling process [in the Tank] would have been accompanied by venting but the operational error seems to be that when the steam to the steam heated vent line was turned off, this had the effect of causing vapors to pass through a cooler environment. ... [T]his had the effect of allowing PA flakes to accumulate in the vent pipe, eventually blocking it. Internally within the tank, the condensing vapours would have created a strong vacuum, thereby initiating implosion of the tank structure.
The Defendants’ final argument was that loss and damage arising from the solidification of the Residual PA was excluded because the Residual PA constituted “property being worked on” and coverage was excluded under sub-clause (k) of “Property Excluded Under Section I” of the Policy that states: This Policy does not cover loss or destruction of or damage to ... (k) property being worked on and directly arising from any process of manufacture repairs alteration or servicing but the Company shall be liable for other damage insured by this Policy and resulting from such cause.
My determination on the preliminary issues are thus as follows: (a) [2(a)]: Yes, the Defendants are not liable. (b) [2(b)(iii)(A)(I)]: The loss, destruction and/or damage was unforeseen but not sudden. (c) [2(b)(iii)(A)(II)]: No, the loss, destruction and/or damage was not caused by and did not arise from a change in temperature” or “inadequate operation of...heating system”. (d) [2(b)(iii)(B)(I)]: No, the loss, destruction and/or damage was unforeseen and sudden. (e) [2(b)(iii)(B)(II)]: Yes, the loss, destruction and/or damage was caused by or arose from a change in temperature” or “inadequate operation of...heating system”. (f) [2(c)]: No, the PA in the Tank was not “property being worked on”.