The appellant, Khian Heng Construction (Private) Ltd (“the appellant”) was appointed by the Housing and Development Board (“HDB”) as the main contractor to carry out lift upgrading works at Blocks 123, 129, 132 and 139, Simei Street 1 (“the Worksite”). The appellant sub-contracted the piling works to be carried out at the Worksite to CS Geotechnic Pte Ltd (“CS Geotechnic”). The appellant engaged Mr Tan Hock Guan, a licensed cable detector worker (“LCDW”) (“LCDW Tan”) to ascertain the presence of any underlying cables in the Worksite. This was a requirement by law. LCDW Tan detected high and low voltage electricity cables in the vicinity of Block 129 of the Worksite and prepared a drawing of the proposed trial trench to be dug by the appellant. The appellant dug its own trial holes, pursuant to the drawing, and only found a Singapore Cable Vision cable (“the SCV cable”) at one of the trial holes. Having not found any high voltage electricity cables, the appellant authorised CS Geotechnic to carry out the piling works. In the course of carrying out the sub-contracted piling works, CS Geotechnic damaged a 22 kilovolt high voltage electricity cable (“the Cable”). The Cable was in the transmission network under the control of SP PowerGrid Ltd (“SPPG”). It was located at a depth of about 1.9m, near the SVC cable found by the appellant when it dug trial holes. No power outage was reported and the cost of repairing the Cable was $4, 498.32 which was duly paid by the appellant. The appellant and CS Geotechnic were separately charged but jointly tried before the learned District Judge (“DJ”). The DJ convicted both, imposing a fine of $100,000 on the appellant and $30,000 on CS Geotechnic. CS Geotechnic did not appeal against the DJ’s decision and this present appeal is limited to the appellant’s conviction.
CS Geotechnic was charged under s 80(4)(a) of the Electricity Act (Cap 89A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“Electricity Act”) for failing to comply with all reasonable requirements of SPPG to prevent damage to high voltage electricity cables. The appellant was charged by way of private prosecution (initiated by the Energy Market Authority) on 16 January 2009 under s 85(2) of the Electricity Act for suffering to be damaged a high voltage electricity cable on 11 November 2006 in the course of carrying out earthworks at Block 129 of the Worksite. Sections 85(2), 80(4) and 80(7) of the Electricity Act state as follows: Damage to property of electricity licensee [the appellant’s charge] 85.–(1) ... (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), any person who, in the course of carrying out any earthworks, damages or suffers to be damaged any high voltage electricity cable in the transmission network belonging to or under the management or control of an electricity licensee shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both. Carrying out of earthworks within vicinity of high voltage electricity cable [CS Geotechnic’s charge] 80.–(1) ... [...] (4) It shall be the duty of the person who carries out any earthworks referred to in subsection (1) — (a) to comply with all reasonable requirements of the electricity licensee for the prevention of damage to the high voltage electricity cable; (b) to ensure that reasonable precautions are taken when carrying out such earthworks to prevent any damage to the high voltage electricity cable; and (c) to allow the electricity licensee reasonable access to the work site for the purpose of inspecting or taking any necessary measures to protect the high voltage electricity cable. [...] (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.
The DJ observed that the phrase “in the course of carrying out any earthworks” was specifically introduced by Parliament in s 85(2) of the Electricity Act as the precursor to this provision, s 107(3) of the Public Utilities Act (Cap 261, 1996 Rev Ed) (“Public Utilities Act”) did not contain this phrase. In relation to the word “earthworks”, the DJ found that the appellant had carried out earthworks under s 2 of the Electricity Act when it dug trial holes at the piling locations. Section 2 of the Electricity Act defines “earthworks” as follows: “earthworks” means — (a)any act of excavating earth, rock or other material (by whatever means) in connection with — (i)any work for or relating to the construction, reconstruction, extension, renovation, alteration, demolition or repair of any building, road, railway, bridge, viaduct, flyover, sewer or sewage works; (ii)any work for or relating to the laying, inspecting, repairing or renewing of any main, pipe, cable, fitting or other apparatuses; (iii)any soil investigation work; or (iv)such other works as are usually undertaken by a person carrying on business as a contractor in the construction industry or as a professional civil or structural engineer; (b)any act of boring, dredging, jacking, levelling, piling or tunnelling on or under any premises or street by any mechanical means; or (c)the driving or sinking of any earth rod, casing or tube into the ground; Where an offence under subsection (2) is committed by any person acting as the agent or servant of another person, or being otherwise subject to the supervision or instructions of another person for the purposes of any employment in the course of which the offence was committed, that other person shall, without prejudice to the liability of the first-mentioned person, be liable under that subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as if he had personally committed the offence unless he proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence was committed without his consent or connivance or that it was not attributable to any neglect on his part. Notwithstanding [Section 107(2)], any person who damages or suffers to be damaged any electricity cable in the transmission network belonging to or under the management or control of a public electricity licensee shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.
I am not inclined to amend the appellant’s charge for one under s 80(4) of the Electricity Act due to the substantial difference in the nature of the charges and the elements to be proven. As observed in Garmaz s/o Pakhar and another v Public Prosecutor [1996] 1 SLR(R) 95 at [29]: The power that an appellate court has in amending a charge under s 256(b) of the CPC is not unlimited and obviously such power has to be exercised with great caution and not to the prejudice of the accused. The same tests laid down by Taylor J in Lew Cheok Hin and Cussen J in Ng Ee in substituting a conviction for the one under appeal are, subject to necessary modifications, appropriate and applicable to the exercise of the power of amendment of a charge. The purpose of these tests is to prevent any prejudice to the accused.