This Originating Summons (“the OS”) was an application by Lim Chin San Contractors Pte Ltd (“the plaintiff”) pursuant to s 48(1)(a)(vii) of the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the Act”) to set aside an arbitrator’s award. The award dated 20 October 2011 (“the Additional Award”) was an additional award given by the arbitrator under s 43(4) of the Act to L W Infrastructure Pte Ltd (“the defendant”) for pre-award interest. I granted the plaintiff’s application with costs and ordered that the Additional Award be set aside. The defendant has appealed against my order (in Civil Appeal No 17 of 2012) while the plaintiff has cross-appealed (in Civil Appeal No 26 of 2012) against my refusal to grant a declaration that the Additional Award be declared a nullity and that it was not an award under s 43 of the Act. In the light of the appeals, I now set out the detailed grounds for my decision.
There is little case law on the operation of s 43(4) of the Act, and the main questions at issue in this case related to whether the court had the power to set aside an additional arbitral award on the basis that it was not validly made under s 43(4); and the extent to which the rules of natural justice applied to the operation of the same section.
The parties were engaged in arbitration before an arbitrator, one Johnny Tan Cheng Hye (“the Arbitrator”), pursuant to a Notice of Arbitration served on 22 June 2004 by the defendant on the plaintiff. In the arbitral proceedings, the defendant was the claimant while the plaintiff was the respondent. It was not disputed that the Act applied to these proceedings.
The procedural history relating to the arbitration is a little complicated, and involved the Arbitrator rendering several awards. The Arbitrator rendered his Final Award on 29 June 2010, in which the plaintiff was awarded the sum of $341,391.10 with simple interest at the rate of 5.33% per annum from the date of the award. The Final Award took into consideration numerous claims and counterclaims, one of which was for liquidated damages to be paid by the plaintiff to the defendant. The Arbitrator made no award of liquidated damages in the Final Award. To correct some typographical errors in the Final Award, the Arbitrator then issued a Supplementary Award on 15 July 2010 (“the First Supplementary Award”).
Both parties were dissatisfied with the Arbitrator’s decision, and appealed against it on questions of law arising out of the Final Award. The defendant filed Originating Summons No 759 of 2010 while the plaintiff cross-appealed by way of Originating Summons No 769 of 2010. Both appeals were heard before Justice Judith Prakash, who in her decision of 5 July 2011 (see LW Infrastructure Pte Ltd v Lim Chin San Contractors Pte Ltd [2011] 4 SLR 477) dismissed the plaintiff’s appeal and substantially allowed the defendant’s appeal. The Final Award was remitted to the Arbitrator for reconsideration of the issue of whether the defendant should be entitled to liquidated damages in the light of the court’s orders. 2. The [defendant] had made a claim for interest to be paid by the [plaintiff]. This is prayed for in the Points of Claim (Amendment No. 3). The claim for interest, as prayed for by the [defendant] would include both pre-award as well as post-award interest. 3. However, we note that the Tribunal had omitted from the Supplementary Award No. 2 (Remitted Issues) the award of pre-award interest on the sum of $603,608.90 to the [defendant]. The Tribunal had only awarded post-award interest on the sum of $603,608.90 in the Supplementary Award No. 2 (Remitted Issues). 4. It is provided in section 43(4) of the Arbitration Act (“the Act”) as follows:- “Unless otherwise agreed by parties, a party may, within 30 days of receipt of the award and upon notice to the other party, request the arbitral tribunal to make an additional award as to claims presented during the arbitration proceedings but omitted from the award.” 5. Pursuant to section 43(4) of the Act, our clients hereby request the Tribunal to make an additional award as to a claim for pre-award interest presented during the arbitration proceedings but omitted from the Supplementary Award No. 2 (Remitted Issues). (emphasis original) 1 I refer to the letter from M/s Drew & Napier LLC dated 17 Oct 2011. 2 I enclose herewith my Additional Award issued pursuant section 43(4)(sic) dealing with pre-award interest on the sum of $603,608.90 awarded. 1 Pursuant to section 43(4) of the Arbitration Act, a party may within 30 days of receipt of the award and upon notice to the other party, request the arbitrator to make an additional award as to claims presented during the arbitration proceedings but omitted from the award. 2 In my Supplementary Award No. 2 (Remitted Issues), I had awarded post-award simple interest at the rate of 5.33% p.a. on the sum of $603,608.90 from the date of the Supplementary Award No. 2. I have overlooked and omitted to deal with the pre-award interest on the sum of $603,608.90. I now deal with the pre-award interest in this additional award. (a) that the Additional Award be declared a nullity in that it was not an award made under or for the purposes of s 43 of the Arbitration Act; (b) further or in the alternative, an order that the Additional Award be set aside under s 48(1)(a)(vii) of the Arbitration Act. Correction or interpretation of award and additional award 43. – ... (4) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may, within 30 days of receipt of the award and upon notice to the other party, request the arbitral tribunal to make an additional award as to claims presented during the arbitration proceedings but omitted from the award. (5) If the arbitral tribunal considers the request in subsection (4) to be justified, the tribunal shall make the additional award within 60 days of the receipt of such request. No judicial review of award 47 . The Court shall not have jurisdiction to confirm, vary, set aside or remit an award on an arbitration agreement except where so provided in this Act. ...minimal curial intervention is underpinned by two principal considerations. First, there is a need to recognise the autonomy of the arbitral process by encouraging finality, so that its advantage as an efficient alternative dispute resolution process is not undermined. Second, having opted for arbitration, parties must be taken to have acknowledged and accepted the attendant risks of having only a very limited right of recourse to the courts. Court may set aside award 48. – (1) An award may be set aside by the Court – (a) if the party who applies to the Court to set aside the award proves to the satisfaction of the Court that – ... (vii) a breach of the rules of natural justice occurred in connection with the making of the award by which the rights of any party have been prejudiced... ...a party challenging an arbitration award as having contravened the rules of natural justice must establish: (a) which rule of natural justice was breached; (b) how it was breached; (c) in what way the breach was connected to the making of the award; and (d) how the breach prejudiced its rights. The third possible measure (in pari materia to ss 43(4) and (5) of the Arbitration Act) is to make an additional award as to any claim presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the award (e.g. claimed interest was erroneously not awarded). If the arbitral tribunal considers the request, not necessarily the omitted claim, to be justified, it shall make an additional award, irrespective of whether any further hearing or taking of evidence is required for that purpose. (emphasis in bold added) General duties of arbitral tribunal 22 . The arbitral tribunal shall act fairly and impartially and shall give each party a reasonable opportunity of presenting his case. It is incontrovertible that international practice has now radically shifted in favour of respecting and preserving the autonomy of the arbitral process in contrast to the earlier practice of enthusiastic curial intervention... Aggressive judicial intervention can only result in the prolonging of the arbitral process and encourage myriad unmeritorious challenges to the arbitral award by dissatisfied parties. Left unchecked, an interventionist approach can lead to indeterminate challenges, cause indeterminate costs to be incurred and lead to indeterminate delays. (emphasis original) If the arbitral tribunal considers the request, not necessarily the omitted claim, to be justified, it shall make an additional award, irrespective of whether any further hearing or taking of evidence is required for that purpose. M/s Drew & Napier LLC wrote to me on 17 Oct 2011 requesting for the additional award pursuant to Section 43(4). I held my hands for 3 days till 20 Oct 2011 pending a response from the Respondent. Since there was no objection raised and no interim reply to suggest that the Respondent intended to object to the request, I proceeded to deal with the application.