The trial before me involved three suits which were consolidated pursuant to an order of court dated 9 February 2012.
UDL Marine (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“UDL”) is the plaintiff in Suit No 502 of 2010 (“S502”) and Suit No 156 of 2011 (“S156”), and the defendant in Suit No 98 of 2011 (“S98”). UDL is a wholly owned subsidiary of UDL Holding Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong. UDL was known as Denlane Shipbuilding Pte Ltd (“Denlane”) before it was renamed UDL Marine (Singapore) Pte Ltd on 28 December 2007. UDL’s primary business is in the building of ships, tankers and other ocean-going vessels.
Jurong Town Corporation (“JTC”) is the defendant in S502 and the plaintiff in S98. JTC is a statutory body established under the Jurong Town Corporation Act (Cap 150, 1998 Rev Ed).
Economic Development Board of Singapore (“EDB”) is the defendant in S156. EDB is a statutory body established under the Economic Development Board Act (Cap 85, 2012 Rev Ed).
By way of a lease agreement dated 6 March 1981 (“the Lease”), the land at 3 Benoi Road, Singapore 629877 (“the Premises”) was leased to a company known as UDL Shipbuilding (S) Pte Ltd (“UDL Shipbuilding”). Sometime in 1996, UDL Shipbuilding went into receivership. At the end of 1998, UDL (then known as Denlane), which was an associate company of UDL Shipbuilding, secured an agreement with the mortgagee, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, to purchase the interest under the mortgage and take over the Lease (subject to JTC’s approval). On 12 July 1999, JTC gave its in-principle approval to the proposed transfer, subject to certain conditions including undertaking liability for unpaid and outstanding rent in respect of the Premises. Formal approval was granted by JTC on 20 October 1999. 
The Lease was to expire on 1 January 2002 and UDL applied for it to be renewed. By way of a letter dated 9 December 2002, JTC made an offer to UDL to renew the Lease for a further term of nine years from 1 January 2002 . On 8 September 2003, UDL wrote to JTC, confirming acceptance of the terms and conditions of the offer letter of 9 December 2002. On 9 December 2003, JTC wrote to inform UDL that the renewal of the Lease had been approved. The lease was to run for nine years, from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2010.
Leung Yat Tung (“Leung”), managing director of UDL, gave evidence that around 2004, he gathered from “market talk” that JTC had plans to redevelop waterfront sites in the area where the Premises was situated. He understood that existing tenants, including UDL, would not have their leases renewed upon expiry. Therefore, UDL decided to sell the remainder of the Lease and found a potential purchaser in Kim Hock Corporation (“Kim Hock”). A conditional sale and purchase agreement for the Lease was entered into with Kim Hock on 14 January 2005 at the price of $3,200,000. The agreement was made subject to the requisite approval from JTC for the transfer of the balance of the Lease. On 18 January 2005, UDL’s solicitors wrote to JTC requesting JTC’s approval. However on 18 March 2005, UDL wrote to JTC advising that the sale and purchase agreement between UDL and Kim Hock had been rescinded. The events leading to this rescission form the core of the dispute in this case.
Sometime in late February 2005, a few weeks after the conditional sale and purchase agreement with Kim Hock was signed, Leung was informed that an EDB officer was trying to contact him and had requested a return call. Accordingly, he called and made contact with Sidat Senanayake (“Sidat”), a Senior Officer of the EDB, handling Oil and Gas and Alternative Energy matters.
In his several affidavits, Leung’s versions of events varied somewhat. Although it may be expected that he would flesh out the details of the conversation between him and Sidat, there were conflicts in terms of what had transpired. The statement of claim (“SOC”) in S502 and S156 asserted that Sidat had told Leung during their very first phone conversation in late February 2005 that EDB had learnt from JTC of UDL’s decision to dispose of the remainder of the Lease. Sidat asked for the reason. Leung replied that UDL’s decision was based on its understanding that the waterfront area was to be redeveloped and that the Lease would not be extended beyond 31 December 2010. Leung claimed that Sidat then made the following representations (as set out in para 8 of the SOC in S502): … as a yet to be published policy, [JTC] had decided to postpone the redevelopment of the area and would grant extensions of 20 years for the yards in the area including the Premises. Given this new development, [Sidat] requested that [UDL] reconsider the Potential Sale and to maintain their business in Singapore
Leung then asked Sidat for clear confirmation that the Lease for the Premises would be available for an extension of 20 years. Both SOCs in S502 and S156 continued the narrative with a description of the first meeting with Sidat in early March 2005 during which Sidat repeated the Alleged Representations and assured Leung that he had checked and confirmed this matter with JTC. Sidat further stated that EDB would render the necessary assistance to procure the extension of the Lease and that UDL should therefore withdraw from the sale to Kim Hock.
This version was reaffirmed in Leung’s affidavit in S502 filed on 16 September 2010 (“the 16 September 2010 Affidavit”) in support of an interim injunction. In that affidavit, Leung repeated the position in the SOC that Sidat had represented to him that JTC had postponed redevelopment plans and were prepared to grant extensions to leases in the area. Leung fleshed out the conversation between them in the following manner at para 7.7: I told [Sidat] that [UDL] needed certainty and asked him to reconfirm the correctness of the [Alleged Representations]. He told me that what he had told me was correct but he would nevertheless reconfirm the position with [JTC] and then speak to [UDL] again. I told him that [UDL] would await the outcome of his discussions with [JTC]. I was quite happy when I heard this and felt re-assured as the EDB is a reputable Statutory Authority and who, from [UDL’s] previous extension application process experience from 2000 to 2002, worked very closely with [JTC].
Leung went on to state that Sidat called him again sometime in March 2005 to state that he had checked with JTC and repeated the representations about the postponement of redevelopment and possibility of a 20-year lease extension. He said that on 13 April 2005 he met with Sidat (in the 16 September 2010 Affidavit, this would be the first meeting with Sidat). He told Sidat that following his assurances about the renewal of the Lease, UDL had called off the sale to Kim Hock. He asked Sidat whether the Lease could be renewed immediately, given that there were another five and a half years left. Sidat responded that JTC was aware of this and he did not foresee any difficulty for a renewal. Leung then asked Sidat to confirm this in writing. This confirmation came, after several reminders, by way of an email from Sidat dated 26 May 2005 which states as follows: Dear Mr Leung, my apologies for not responding sooner. We have discussed the matter with JTC, who is agreeable to consider such a conditional extension for UDL. This is subject to EDB’s support and we would therefore look forward to receiving a proposal from UDL on your proposed plans for the site. Jen Siang has returned from his overseas travels, so you can follow-up on this directly with him. thank you & best regards sidat
The main differences between the version in Leung’s 16 September 2010 Affidavit and the SOCs are that there were two phone conversations between Leung and Sidat (as opposed to one in the SOC) and they met for the first time on 13 April 2005 (as opposed to March 2005).
Leung filed another affidavit on 2 November 2010 (“the 2 November 2010 Affidavit”) in originating summons no 1133 of 2010 in an application under O 53 r 5 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R5, 2006 Rev Ed) for an order to quash the decision of JTC to refuse extension of the Lease. This affidavit repeated the version in his 16 September 2010 Affidavit.
Leung filed a further affidavit in this consolidated suit, dated 11 June 2012 (“11 June 2012 Affidavit”). This essentially repeated the version in the two earlier affidavits except that Leung added that, after the second phone conversation in March 2005, he “continued to correspond via email” with Sidat.
In his affidavit evidence-in-chief (“AEIC”), a different version emerged in relation to the sequence of events. Leung deposed that in the first phone call, Sidat had only stated that EDB had learnt of the sale to Kim Hock and wanted to meet to discuss this issue. Sidat did not make the Alleged Representations during that conversation. Leung agreed to meet and Sidat, along with a colleague, turned up at UDL’s office at the Premises sometime in late February or early March 2005. It was at this meeting that Sidat had made the Alleged Representations on postponement of redevelopment and the possibility of lease extension. Sidat asked for the reason for the sale to Kim Hock. Leung was surprised that EDB had learnt of this as well as their unsolicited involvement. He asked Sidat the reason for the intervention by EDB. Sidat explained that EDB wanted to know if the sale was due to a decision by UDL to withdraw from Singapore or for some other reason. This was because it was EDB’s role to promote and assist foreign investment in Singapore. Leung explained that the decision was based on his understanding that the Premises was located in an area which was slated for redevelopment and that the lease would not be renewed upon expiry. UDL found it commercially necessary to sell the remainder of the Lease and review other investment opportunities. Leung told Sidat that UDL was considering all options, including pulling out of Singapore. Leung said that Sidat then informed him that JTC had actually decided to postpone the proposed redevelopment in the area for 20 years and would be able to grant extensions of up to 20 years. Sidat asked Leung whether, given this development, UDL would reconsider the sale to Kim Hock. As this was contrary to the impression that Leung had, he asked Sidat to check and confirm this. Sidat reiterated what he had said and was adamant that it was correct. However he agreed to check with JTC and revert.
Sometime in early March 2005, Sidat called Leung to arrange another meeting, which was held on 17 March 2005. At this second meeting, Sidat told Leung that he had checked and obtained confirmation from JTC that the redevelopment of the area had been postponed and that JTC would be granting extensions to existing leases for up to 20 years. Sidat assured Leung that, should UDL decide to stay, EDB would provide the necessary support and assistance to procure the lease renewal. This included EDB providing its approval of UDL’s business plan in the lease renewal application “after which JTC’s approval would be no more than a mere formality”. Sidat told Leung that, as the reasons for exit were no longer of concern, UDL should withdraw from the potential sale to Kim Hock.
Leung said that he was surprised at Sidat’s in-depth knowledge of the proposed sale to Kim Hock as UDL had not notified EDB of the sale. He drew the conclusion that: (a) Sidat was working in conjunction with JTC, (b) Sidat had been informed of the details of the sale by JTC, and (c) Sidat was tasked to speak with Leung to persuade UDL to withdraw from the proposed sale. The following day, on 18 March 2005, UDL sent the letter to JTC advising of rescission of the sale to Kim Hock.
Leung claimed that he was both encouraged by Sidat’s strong support for UDL and also surprised at his extent of knowledge about the sale to Kim Hock despite the fact that the EDB was never notified of the intended sale. As such, Leung stated that he naturally concluded that Sidat was working in conjunction with JTC and was persuaded that the EDB and JTC would have been ready to grant UDL a 20-year extension of the Lease, pending thev submission of a business plan supported by the EDB. When asked during cross-examination why Leung thought that UDL could be so important that a senior officer of the EDB would ask them to apply for an extension, Leung proffered the following explanation: ... so if you were to ask me what did I know at the time, then I could tell you he was very keen, and I wouldn’t know why. But [Sidat] came, you know, with the blessing of JTC, because -- I mean, he was very informed. He was very keen for me to opt out of the deal, for some reason I did not know. He tried to convince me -- he tried to convince me it was my business which is -- he valued for future contribution of Singapore shipbuilding industry, or like so. ... We were one of those guys who actually are staking out during the very bad time of shipbuilding industry. There’s a lot of people actually fold up and withdraw from the industry. [emphasis added]
Leung explained during cross examination that he decided to cancel the intended sale with Kim Hock and on 18 March 2005, and so duly informed JTC of the cancellation, based on the confidence he had placed on Sidat’s Alleged Representations: In a series of discussion leading to the final confirmation by Mr Sidat in this email, I had this impression from him; and in fact it was a strong enough impression that I made the decision to cancel the sale on 17 March.
Sidat gave evidence that he was employed by EDB from July 2003 to August 2007. In March 2005, he was a senior officer in the Logistics and Transport Cluster, along with Kong. Sidat covered Kong’s duties while the latter was on leave or overseas assignment.
Sidat said that one of the matters he helped Kong with was the matter of the UDL lease. Sidat said that he recalled speaking to Leung on the phone and meeting him at the Premises. However he could not recall the exact dates. Based on an email from Kong to Ernest Tay (“Tay”), JTC’s assistant manager (lease management) dated 17 March 2005 (see [27]), Sidat said that the initial contact with Leung would have been before that date as the email referred to a meeting with UDL on that date.
Sidat categorically denied UDL’s allegation that he had “sought to persuade [UDL] to reconsider its decision” to sell the Lease to Kim Hock. He said that EDB was tasked to provide comments and feedback on the proposed sale to Kim Hock. His role was limited to fact finding and reporting back to JTC. UDL was not a client of EDB and no file had been opened for it. Critically, Sidat denied that he had represented to Leung that, as a yet to be published policy, JTC had decided to postpone redevelopment in the area and would be prepared to grant lease extensions of up to 20 years. He also denied that he told Leung that EDB would render the necessary assistance to procure extension of the Lease. Sidat gave the following reasons to support these contentions: (a) If it was a yet to be published policy, he could not have disclosed it to Leung as this would be a breach of his undertaking to EDB to safeguard official secrets and possibly an offence under the Official Secrets Act (Cap 213, 2012 Rev Ed). (b) He did not recall that there was any such policy at the time. (c) Extensions of leases fell within the purview of JTC and EDB merely provided inputs if requested to do so; EDB could not dictate to JTC on these matters. (d) No business plan had been provided by UDL which could form the basis of an assessment. It was EDB’s practice to ask for a business plan before providing any feedback or recommendation. (e) He was merely covering Kong on this matter and could not have taken such a decision on his behalf.
Tay testified that JTC was “indifferent” when it came to “who the choice of assignee is/should be”. However, Tay stated that JTC’s approval would still be required for the assignment as a whole. In particular Tay stated that one of JTC’s concerns in assessing a lessee’s application to assign its lease was whether there were subsisting breaches by the outgoing assignor under the Lease. After receipt of UDL’s application for approval to transfer the Lease to Kim Hock, JTC carried out a site inspection of the Premises around 26 January 2005. JTC observed that there were unauthorised structures and occupiers in the Premises. This was drawn to UDL’s attention, upon which UDL represented that they would provide JTC with a letter of undertaking to regularise the unauthorised structures. On 3 February 2005, Tay wrote to UDL requesting that UDL provides its letter of undertaking by 11 February 2005.
According to Tay, it was also normal practice for JTC to notify the relevant officer of the EDB whose portfolio included the management of the assignor’s lease, so as to obtain EDB’s comments on the assignment. As such, he emailed Kong on 14 February 2005, setting out the details of the proposed assignment and asked for his comments. On 24 February 2005, Kong informed Tay that EDB wished to meet up with UDL and Kim Hock before providing JTC with EDB’s views on the transfer. In an email sent on the same day, Tay provided Kong with the contact details of the UDL and Kim Hock representatives.
On 4 March 2005, Kong emailed Tay to state that he intended to further discuss with UDL to find out if UDL was willing to consider offers from other potential assignees as follows:  … I am going to sound out [UDL] if they are willing to consider other offers from Strat Marine or ASL. I will try to ask about Kim Hock, but being a recycling [company], I doubt they will be able to make good use of this prime marine site ...
On 17 March 2005, Kim Hock sent an email to Tay inquiring about JTC’s decision on the assignment which had been pending for two months. Tay sent Kim Hock an email on 17 March 2005 stating the assignment was “still pending EDB approval”. This email was copied to Kong with the query “What is the status of the assignment? Hope to hear from you soon”. Kong replied the same day stating that UDL had informed EDB that they were reviewing their plans. He also told Tay that UDL’s change of position was a “commercial decision” and that JTC should allow UDL to communicate with Kim Hock directly.
Tay gave evidence that he was surprised at Kong’s email. He stated that JTC had a “non-intrusive” approach towards the proposed assignment. In an email dated 18 March 2005, he wrote to Kong to clarify that JTC was indifferent as to the identity of the potential assignee and therefore had no intention to obstruct communications between UDL and Kim Hock.
As stated at [18] above, UDL wrote to JTC on 18 March 2005, notifying JTC that the sale and purchase agreement between UDL and Kim Hock had been rescinded and that its application for consent for the assignment was no longer required. On the same day, UDL also wrote to EDB to inform them of the same. The letter from UDL to EDB read: We ... would like to inform you that the intended transfer was cancelled. Due to this new development we deem your inquiry is no longer applicable and there is no further action to follow as the case is closed.
It is common ground that subsequent to the rescission of the sale to Kim Hock, UDL engaged with EDB to develop a business plan to support its application for lease extension from JTC. The process dragged on somewhat for a number of reasons. It was only on 7 August 2008, more than three years after the first contact with EDB, that UDL submitted its application to JTC for lease renewal. On 23 October 2008, JTC acknowledged receipt of the business plan and lease renewal application but informed UDL that the application could not be processed for the time being as JTC was undertaking a comprehensive waterfront study. Notwithstanding this, UDL continued to engage with EDB on refining the business plan. On 24 September 2009, UDL applied to EDB for “Incentive for Redevelopment Plan” at the Premises, setting out its investment plan for the Premises. On the same day, UDL submitted its formal application for lease renewal to JTC. However on 20 November 2009, JTC wrote to UDL to advise that its application was not successful. UDL then embarked on a series of correspondence with JTC to appeal for a change of mind, including engaging a law firm to represent it. This process dragged on for another half a year. On 23 June 2010, JTC wrote to UDL to state that UDL’s application could not be granted. UDL filed the writ in S502 on 8 July 2010.
UDL’s case in S502 and S156 turns on the Alleged Representations. These are oral and not supported by any documentation from EDB, except that Leung pointed to emails that support their existence, which I will consider below. Sidat was unable to recall what exactly transpired in his dealings with Leung, which is not unexpected in the circumstances; indeed it would be surprising if he did recall anything given his brief involvement and the long passage of time. But Sidat was able to categorically deny that he had made those representations based on the normal procedure in EDB and the nature of his involvement in the matter – see [23] above. Although those reasons appear to be valid and accord with common sense, this does not mean that he did not make the Alleged Representations. In determining whether Leung’s allegations are true, or the extent to which they are true, it is necessary to consider all the relevant facts, including the supporting evidence. I now turn to consider them.
Sidat became involved in February 2005 when Leung first spoke to him on the phone and had dropped out of the picture after 26 May 2005. According to Leung, all the Alleged Representations were made to him by Sidat and nobody else. It was essentially Leung’s words against Sidat’s. I find the following factors to be relevant in my finding of fact in this regard: (a) Leung had given inconsistent accounts (b) The documentary evidence does not support UDL (c) Late allegation of misrepresentation (d) Sidat’s version is logical
I have set out in [9] to [16] above the various versions that Leung had given in his affidavits as well as that in the SOCs. The crucial events concerning the Alleged Representations took place in March 2005, some five years before UDL took out the writ in the first action, S502, on 8 July 2010. It is of course not surprising that Leung would have been mistaken on some of the details. However the burden of proof rests on UDL and given the importance of Leung’s evidence, consistency of his evidence would increase its probative value. Conversely, inconsistency would reduce it.
Leung relied on several contemporaneous emails to support his evidence. I set out the events leading to those emails.
Leung gave evidence that he met Sidat at EDB’s offices on 13 April 2005 to inform him of UDL’s withdrawal from the sale to Kim Hock. At that meeting, Leung said that he made it clear to Sidat that UDL’s decision to withdraw for the assignment was based on Sidat’s representations and assurances, acting for EDB, with the concurrence of JTC. Leung said that he requested Sidat to provide him with written confirmation of what Sidat had previously told him. In addition, Leung asked Sidat to check whether JTC would entertain an early application for lease renewal as the normal procedure envisaged such applications only around six months prior to lease expiry. Sidat, on the other hand, denied that Leung had told him that UDL’s decision was based on his representations. He said that if Leung had said this, he would have “corrected him on the spot”. However Sidat admitted that Leung had asked whether JTC would entertain an early application for the renewal of the Lease and he agreed to check with JTC.
Leung said that, as no response was forthcoming from Sidat, he sent Sidat an email on 19 April 2005 as follows: Just a short note to thank you for your attendance to the last discussion on 13 April 2005. It is our understanding that you are to ascertain if it is an open policy for JTC to give conditional agreement for extension of tenancy notwithstanding the length of the unexpired term. Given this being a starting position of all commercial assumptions it would be critical if this can be confirmed at the earliest.
On 25 May 2005, still absent a response from Sidat, Leung again wrote to Sidat to say: We write to update progress of things and wonder if you have managed to obtain confirmation from JTC if a conditional grant of extension of the tenancy would be a feasible approach to get things moving. We await to hear from you on the matter.
On 26 May 2005, Sidat replied to Leung with the following email: We have discussed the matter with JTC, who is agreeable to consider such a conditional extension for UDL. This is subject to EDB’s support and we would therefore look forward to receiving a proposal from UDL on your proposed plans for the site. Jen Siang has returned from his overseas travels, so you can follow-up on this directly with him. 
It should be noted that Leung had stated that he had asked Sidat to provide him with a written confirmation of the Alleged Representations made by Sidat to him, which he had relied upon in deciding to withdraw from the sale to Kim Hock – see [35] above. However in both emails to Sidat, Leung made no mention of this request to Sidat for written confirmation. He only asked Sidat to confirm with JTC about the possibility of a conditional extension of the tenancy, to which Sidat replied in his 26 May 2005 email, which was what he wanted in addition to the first request. The three emails are more consistent with Sidat’s version than Leung’s.
There had been many meetings and emails between Leung and JTC as well as EDB. On 15 December 2005, Leung wrote to Kong asking him to “indicate [Leung’s] proper way forward at his [sic] juncture or if there [was] something new [that Leung] must incorporate before submission”. Separately, Kong then wrote to one Miss Karen Lee (“Lee”), a JTC officer, on 19 December 2005, to say: [UDL] was talking to us about renewing their yard lease early this year. This was before the joint EDB-JTC criteria for waterfront land renewal was formalized. Hence, the company is not aware of the changes. I have briefed them on the process, and promised that someone will send them the relevant forms. ... Besides the joint EDB-JTC form, I would like to send the company our normal EDB forms for further assessment into the business plan.
On 20 December 2005, Leung spoke to Tay who was in charge of managing UDL’s lease. During this conversation, Leung alleged that Tay never suggested a different mode of process for an extension application or contradicted Leung’s impression of JTC’s position as represented by Sidat. Tay however gave evidence that during the conversation, he clarified JTC’s position to Leung upon Leung claiming that he was confused on the procedure for renewing the Lease (ie, the renewal application was subject to JTC’s assessment and approval, and was not guaranteed). Crucially, after this conversation, Tay wrote an email to Lee to record the conversation with Mr Leung. This email read: Spoke to Mr Leung (MD, [UDL]) just now. The renewal of lease came about when EDB stepped in to stop the assignment between [UDL] & Kim Hock. He is very confused and unclear abt the renewal of lease procedures because our focus of assessments (P&M, VA...) is different from EDB. There are EDB forms, waterfront assessment forms and JTC renewal application to fill up which makes him confused on the procedures and processes. A meeting has been arranged next week to address his doubts and concerns. One comment arising from this case based on the tele-conversation (25 mins), it seems like EDB is sending a wrong signal or message to [UDL] that so long they have a fantastic idea/vision, EDB will support their plans and JTC will grant them the renewal. This is not true as we need to perform our own assessments. Perhaps, it is good to highlight to EDB (indirectly) when you meet them the next time as it is creating unnecessary confusion on ground. [emphasis in original]
This email showed that EDB had given Leung the impression that so long as UDL came out with a very good proposal, EDB would support its plans and JTC would grant approval. But this does not support UDL’s position that Sidat had made the Alleged Representations.
From 2005 to 2008, the preparation of UDL’s business plan was delayed. Leung attributed this to the bad market conditions which were prevailing at that time. As a result, UDL had to take “some time to pitch [their] business angle in the proper way, in order to come up with a business plan which [would have been] compatible to what Singapore shipbuilding market [needed]”.
It was not until the litigation commenced in 2010, some five years after the event, that UDL alleged that Sidat had made the Alleged Representations. Leung explained that he did not wish to unnecessarily accuse Sidat or anyone of personal wrongdoing. While this is understandable, it is a factor to be considered in deciding whether Leung’s version is accurate. In my view, it weighs against him.
Sidat had given his explanation why he could not have made the Alleged Representations – see [23] above. The reasons are logical. This is another factor to be weighed.
Weighing the four factors set out above in the context of the entirety of the evidence before me, I find that UDL had failed to discharge its burden of proof that Sidat had made the Alleged Representations to Leung. Indeed, I find on a balance of probability that Sidat did not make the Alleged Representations to Leung. In my view, the true reason for Leung’s decision to jettison the sale of the Lease to Kim Hock was Sidat’s representation that JTC would be prepared to consider an application for extension of the Lease. Leung had decided to grasp this opportunity.
In view of my finding of fact, I do not need to deal with the submissions by EDB and JTC relating to a finding of fact in favour of UDL. I need only to state that I agree with their submissions that UDL’s claim in negligence and proprietary estoppel fails.