This was an appeal against the decision of the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) which is reported as ANB v ANC and another [2014] 4 SLR 747 (“the GD”). At the conclusion of proceedings below, the Judge set aside, inter alia, an interim injunction previously granted at the ex parte stage in favour of the Appellant restraining the Respondents from using, disclosing or destroying certain information in their possession which was extracted from the hard disk of the Appellant’s personal notebook computer and which the Appellant alleged was taken, copied and distributed in breach of confidence. We allowed the appeal and granted an interlocutory injunction on terms and upon certain undertakings given by the Appellant and the solicitors of both parties. The full details of the orders made and the undertakings given are set out in the document titled “Annex A” which is appended to our grounds of decision.
We were informed only recently that the parties had arrived at an amicable full and final settlement. In the circumstances, and given that the parties had consented to the discharge of the undertakings mentioned in the preceding paragraph, this court directed that the undertakings be discharged forthwith without requiring the parties’ attendance before it. However, given the importance of the legal issues hitherto raised in the proceedings before us we are of the view that – in addition to setting out the reasons for our decision – we should also flag out some of the more salient points that will need to be considered in more detail when these issues come before the courts for a definitive ruling in the future.
The Appellant and the 1st Respondent were, at the time the appeal was heard and decided, husband and wife, respectively. They were also, at that particular point in time, involved in acrimonious divorce proceedings. They have two children aged six and eight who were, as noted by the Judge at various junctures of the GD, unfortunately caught in the acrimonious currents of the divorce proceedings. The 2nd Respondent was the law firm which represented the wife. Although there were various circumstances surrounding the divorce proceedings that were laid down by the Judge in the GD, we reproduce only the relevant facts that concerned the case before us, ie, those surrounding the alleged surreptitious copying of information stored in the Appellant’s personal notebook computer.
It was not disputed that the 1st Respondent had moved out of the matrimonial home on 26 September 2012 to reside somewhere else. Divorce proceedings were thereafter commenced by the 1st Respondent on 10 October 2012. The 1st Respondent then returned to the matrimonial home on 18 December 2012 while the Appellant was overseas with their two children to find the doors to the matrimonial home padlocked. She then, on the same day, engaged a locksmith to unlock the padlock for her to gain entry into the matrimonial home.
The 1st Respondent found the Appellant’s personal notebook computer while she was in the house. She took it from the house and passed it to her private investigator. The private investigator then, upon the 1st Respondent’s instructions, proceeded to make copies of files contained in the hard disk drive. The copied data was saved onto an external hard disk drive by the private investigator and he passed it to the 1st Respondent who then passed on the information to the 2nd Respondent for use in the divorce proceedings she was engaged in with the Appellant. The 1st Respondent also returned the Appellant’s personal notebook computer to its original location in the matrimonial home where she had initially found it.
The Appellant subsequently discovered the surreptitious copying of the information from his personal notebook computer when the 1st Respondent attempted to adduce some of that information as evidence in the divorce proceedings they were engaged in. He then commenced proceedings claiming, inter alia, breach of confidence and obtained the interim injunction which the Judge had discharged in the proceedings below.
Aside from the Judge’s views concerning the exclusionary discretion of the court in civil proceedings which we will, for the reasons given below (at [10]–[12]), deal with tentatively at a later part of our grounds, the Judge, in discharging the interim injunction, based his decision on his finding that there was no serious question as to whether there was a breach of confidence to be tried. In coming to this conclusion, the Judge provided the following reasons (see the GD at [66]–[67]): (a) The information did not possess the necessary quality of confidence and was different from the sexual affairs of a person – a matter found by Judith Prakash J to possess the necessary quality of confidence in the Singapore High Court decision of X Pte Ltd and another v CDE [1992] 2 SLR(R) 575 (“X v CDE”). (b) The information was not obtained in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence as the relationship between the husband and wife had already broken down in the light of the fact that they were living apart.
Although his finding that there was no serious question to be tried was a sufficient ground for discharging the interim injunction, the Judge observed that the balance of convenience also lay in favour of the Respondents as, in relation to the information already placed before other courts in the course of the divorce proceedings, “allowing the [interim] [i]njunction to stand would be tantamount to interfering with another court’s fact-finding process and its right to decide on admissibility, relevance and weight” (see the GD at [72]).
Before we give the detailed grounds for our decision, it is important, in our view, to state at the outset what this case is – and is not – about.
This case is, first and foremost, about the law of breach of confidence. It is not one that turns (at least on the facts of the present case) on the law of evidence. Further, this case relates to the granting of an interlocutory injunction and not a final injunction. Put simply, we allowed the appeal in the present case on the basis that the test applicable to the granting of an interlocutory injunction laid down in leading House of Lords decision of American Cyanamid Co v Ethicon Ltd [1975] AC 396 (“American Cyanamid”) was satisfied, since: (a) there was a serious question – as to whether a breach of confidence was committed – to be tried; and (b) the balance of convenience lay in favour of granting the interlocutory injunction.
In so far as the need to emphasise the point that this case related to the law of breach of confidence and not the law of evidence is concerned, we note at this particular juncture that the Respondents had, in the court below, focused instead (and wrongly, at least on the facts of the present case) on the law of evidence. Indeed, in the court below, counsel for the Respondents, Mr S Suressh, sought to argue that the principal precedent on which the Appellant had relied on in establishing his case that there had been a breach of confidence (viz, the English Court of Appeal decision of Imerman v Tchenguiz and others [2011] Fam 116 (“Imerman”)) was not applicable in the Singapore context because it was, inter alia, premised on a different rule of evidence. In particular, Mr Suressh submitted that Imerman proceeded on the assumption that the court could refuse to admit improperly or illegally obtained evidence whereas, by virtue of the decision of the Court of 3 Judges in Law Society of Singapore v Tan Guat Neo Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 (“Phyllis Tan”), the Singapore courts had no similar discretion to exclude such evidence. However, the Judge noted, in this regard, that this court had, in the criminal decision of Muhammad bin Kadar v Public Prosecutor [2011] 3 SLR 1205 (“Kadar”), held that a court nevertheless retained a discretion to exclude improperly or illegally obtained evidence if the prejudicial effect of that evidence towards a party exceeded its probative value (hereinafter referred to as “the exclusionary discretion”). The Judge then proceeded to opine that the exclusionary discretion would not, however, be exercised in the context of civil proceedings in most instances (see the GD at [51]) and (more specifically) in the context of the present case (see the GD at [52]).
While it may be that an interlocutory injunction, if ordered, would practically prevent the Respondents from tendering the information as evidence by copying and distributing the information in any other suit in potential breach of confidence, it must be noted that such an injunction does not equate to a decision as to the admissibility of such information as evidence. The latter decision will only have to be made if, for example, the information in the present case was tendered as evidence in support of a suit and the Appellant objects to its admissibility on the ground that it was being used in breach of confidence.
Further, and with respect, it was by no means clear, in our view, that the Judge had rendered a correct statement of the relevant legal position as to the exercise of an exclusionary discretion in the context of civil proceedings for reasons which we tentatively state below. Our views (set out briefly below at [27]–[31]) are tentative simply because, as already mentioned, given the fact that this appeal turned on the law relating to breach of confidence (and whether there was a serious question to be tried in this regard), the law of evidence was not even engaged to begin with – at least on the facts of the present case. Since the issue of admissibility under the law of evidence did not even arise, the (further) issue as to whether or not the exclusionary discretion may also be exercised in civil proceedings (such as the present) did not, a fortiori, arise.
It thus follows from the preceding paragraphs that we did not accept Mr Suressh’s argument that Imerman is not good law in the Singapore context in so far as the relevant legal principles concerning breach of confidence were concerned. Nonetheless, there was also no need for us to reach a conclusive decision in the present case as to whether the legal principles enunciated in Imerman, and other associated overseas decisions concerning the protection of private information in the context of the law of confidence (which have not been considered by our courts prior to the present case), should be accepted in Singapore. This leads us to our second caveat – that this case concerned the granting of an interlocutory injunction, not a final injunction. As stated above, it was sufficient for us to be satisfied that there was, in the present case, a serious question to be tried as to whether or not there had been a breach of confidence by the Respondents. In our view, in conjunction with the live factual disputes, the novel and difficult question of law as to whether our law of confidence protects, at least to a certain extent, private information that is surreptitiously extracted or obtained (as illustrated in cases such as Imerman) was to be properly dealt with at trial (see also the Singapore High Court decision of Lim and Tan Securities Pte v Sunbird Pte Ltd [1991] 2 SLR(R) 776 at [22], cited with approval by this court in Obegi Melissa and others v Vestwin Trading Pte Ltd and another [2008] 2 SLR(R) 540 at [40] (“Obegi Melissa”)). It was, in the light of this and the fact that the balance of convenience lay in favour of the Appellant, that we allowed the appeal and granted the interlocutory injunction on terms and upon certain undertakings.
Bearing these caveats in mind, we now proceed to give the detailed grounds for our decision.
The parties did not dispute the applicable test vis-à-vis the granting of an interlocutory injunction. In our view, the only issues before this court were whether: (a) the Judge was correct in finding that there was no serious question as to whether there had been a breach of confidence to be tried; and (b) the Judge was correct in finding that the balance of convenience lay in favour of the Respondents.
In determining whether there was a serious question to be tried, the Judge below relied on the formulation of the test for breach of confidence set out in the seminal decision of Megarry J in the English High Court ruling in Coco v A N Clark (Engineers) Ltd [1969] RPC 41 (“Coco”), a decision which has been cited with approval in various local High Court decisions (see X v CDE at [27]; PH Hydraulics & Engineering Pte Ltd v Intrepid Offshore Construction Pte Ltd and another [2012] 4 SLR 36 at [55]; and Clearlab SG Pte Ltd v Ting Chong Chai and others [2015] 1 SLR 163 at [64]). The three elements that must be established by a plaintiff in a breach of confidence claim, as stated by Megarry J in Coco (at 47), are that: (a) the information to be protected must have the necessary quality of confidence about it; (b) that information must have been imparted in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence; and (c) there must be an unauthorised use of the information to the detriment of the party who originally communicated it.
We did not disagree with the applicability of this test in the context of what has been described as “old fashioned breach of confidence” cases (see Paul Stanley, The Law of Confidentiality: A Restatement (Hart Publishing, 2008) (“Stanley”) at p 6), ie, cases such as those which involve the transmission of information between transacting parties in a commercial context, or even the alleged engagement in an extra-marital affair between a man and his personal secretary (see X v CDE). However, the strict application of this test in relation to cases such as the one before us that involved the surreptitious taking of personal information must be viewed with at least some circumspection – the protection of such private information having been “shoehorned” into the law of confidence in England, not least owing to the need (see below at [21]) for the English courts to give effect to the relevant provisions (and corresponding articles) of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c 42) (UK) (“the HRA”) (see per Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers MR (as he then was) in the English Court of Appeal decision of Douglas and others v Hello! Ltd and others (No 3) [2006] QB 125 at [96]). The HRA is, of course, not law in the Singapore context (see also below at [21]).
We thus disagreed with the Judge’s rigid application of the test in Coco to the facts of this case in dealing with whether there was a serious question of a breach of confidence to be tried. In doing so, the Judge failed to consider English (and other) jurisprudence which has, under the confidentiality genus, developed “different features” for cases involving the protection of private information in contrast to the “old fashioned breach of confidence” cases (see Imerman at [67]). For example, rather than asking whether the information possessed the necessary quality of confidence and whether that information was imparted in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence pursuant to the first and second elements in the test laid down in Coco respectively, the question asked in England in a case concerning the protection of private information is whether the plaintiff had a “reasonable expectation of privacy” in relation to that information (per Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead and Lord Hope of Craighead in the House of Lords decision of Campbell v MGN Ltd [2004] 2 AC 457 at [21] and [85], respectively). Further, with respect to the third element, it was held in Imerman (at [71]) that there was no need to prove that there had been a misuse of the information for the claim to succeed (although this holding purported to apply to “old fashioned breach of confidence” cases as well).
In our view, the main issue which arose from this case was whether we should (and, if so, to what extent) adopt the English (or other) jurisprudence concerning surreptitiously acquired private information into our law of confidence. This would include consideration of, inter alia, the decision in Imerman where an injunction was granted by the English Court of Appeal upon its finding that the surreptitious procurement of information by the wife’s brother from the husband’s personal computer amounted to a breach of confidence – a case factually similar to the case before us.
The Respondent submitted that many of these cases, including Imerman, were driven by the coming into force of the HRA which was enacted pursuant to the UK’s membership of the European Union and which incorporated into English law the right to privacy under Art 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (4 November 1950), 213 UNTS 221 (Art 8 is to be found in Schedule 1 of the HRA). In this regard, the 1st Respondent argued that there was no serious question to be tried since these cases were irrelevant in the light of the absence of any express guarantee of such a right under the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”) and that the Judge was consequently correct in strictly applying the test in Coco.
Whilst it is true that the right to privacy is not expressly enumerated under the Constitution, it must nevertheless be acknowledged that the protection of privacy under the law of confidence in England in fact materialised before the enactment of the HRA pursuant to a common law right to privacy. The first authoritative extension of the law of confidence to information obtained without the consent of the plaintiff is to be found in Lord Goff of Chieveley’s seminal judgment 25 years ago in Attorney-General v Observer Ltd and others [1990] 1 AC 109 (at 281) (see also generally Tanya Aplin, Lionel Bently, Phillip Johnson & Simon Malynicz, Gurry on Breach of Confidence – The Protection of Confidential Information (Oxford University Press, 2nd Ed, 2012), especially at paras 6.52–6.191 as well as Stanley). Further, other common law jurisdictions, such as New Zealand, have also extended protection to private information via the law of confidence in the absence of any express constitutional (or similar) guarantees to the right to privacy. Finally, on a policy level, legislative developments in recent years, which included the enactment of the Protection from Harassment Act (Cap 256A, 2015 Rev Ed) and the Personal Data Protection Act 2012 (No 26 of 2012), also point towards an increasing recognition of the need to protect personal privacy – developments which must also be viewed in the context of recent spates of data breaches involving commercial customers and government employees in the United States.
In our view, these factors meant that a serious legal issue arose from this case as to whether we should afford, like the courts in England and various other jurisdictions, protection to one’s privacy by way of the law of confidence regardless of whether such a right is guaranteed under the Constitution (an issue which is also dealt with in the comprehensive and perceptive article by George Wei Sze Shun, “Milky Way and Andromeda: Privacy, Confidentiality and Freedom of Expression” (2006) 18 SAcLJ 1, especially at paras 81-89). The extent to which we should adopt such jurisprudence, ie, the circumstances under which the law of confidence would extend its protection to private information acquired without consent, also depended on a determination of the facts (that are to a certain extent disputed) of the case. These matters, to our mind, gave rise to a serious question to be tried as to whether there was a breach of confidence and we thus disagreed with the findings of the Judge on this issue. However, we would again highlight the caveat that we were by no means endorsing, or even encouraging, the identification of a right to protection of private information under our law of confidence. We were simply of the view that such an issue was better left to be determined at trial upon a full and comprehensive canvassing of the relevant legal as well as factual arguments by counsel for both sides (which is of course now moot in view of the settlement arrived at between the parties (see above at [2])).
As a final point of note, we held in Obegi Melissa that a triable issue concerning a breach of confidence arose in a case where documents which were allegedly “abandoned” were obtained by one party from another surreptitiously. Although that case dealt with whether there was a triable issue in relation to the granting of leave to defend upon an application for summary judgment, we nonetheless found that it supported our conclusion that there was a serious question to be tried in this case.
As observed by Lord Nicholls in the House of Lords decision of Cream Holdings Ltd and others v Bangerjee and another [2005] 1 AC 253 (at [18]), “[c]onfidentiality, once breached, is lost for ever”. Given that there was a serious issue to be tried in relation to a breach of confidence, we found that the balance of convenience also lay in favour of granting an injunction to preserve the confidential (or private) quality of the information. The Respondents relied on the Judge’s reasoning below and submitted that prejudice could arise if the information obtained could not be used in the divorce proceedings between the parties. Again, we point out that these proceedings did not relate to the admissibility of the information as evidence in the divorce proceedings (see above at [12]). In any event, we made it clear in the orders made that our holding in this case did not prevent the 1st Respondent from relying on her knowledge of the information to seek disclosure of the information via specific discovery in other proceedings in the usual course of litigation (although the admissibility of the information as evidence would be subject to the decision of whichever court is seized of the matter) (see Order of Court in Annex A at paras 1(c) and 10). In our view, such an arrangement obviated the practical prejudice contemplated by the Respondents and the Judge below that may arise upon a granting of an injunction.
For the reasons given above, we held that the test in American Cyanamid was satisfied by the Appellant and granted an interlocutory injunction in terms. These reasons formed the sole basis of our decision. Nonetheless, we would also proceed to take the opportunity to provide our tentative views on the inherent discretion of the courts to exclude evidence which the Judge had dealt with substantially below.