The present appeals are both brought by the appellant, PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) TBK (“PGN”), against the respondent, CRW Joint Operation (“CRW”). Civil Appeal No 148 of 2013 (“CA 148”) concerns the question of whether a majority arbitral award dated 22 May 2013 (“the Interim Award”) ordering PGN to pay CRW a sum of US$17,298,834.57 (“the Adjudicated Sum”) should be set aside, while Civil Appeal No 149 of 2013 (“CA 149”) concerns the question of whether the order of court dated 2 July 2013 granting CRW leave to enforce the Interim Award against PGN in the same manner as a court judgment (“the Enforcement Order”) should be set aside. The Adjudicated Sum was the amount that the dispute adjudication board (“DAB”) constituted under the contract between the parties (“the Contract”) found PGN liable to CRW for. Reference of a dispute to the DAB is the first step under the dispute resolution regime prescribed in the Contract. These appeals turn on the interpretation of various aspe--cts of that regime as well as the effect of s 19B of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the IAA”).
Justice Quentin Loh and I have had the advantage of reading in draft the judgment of Chan Sek Keong SJ. With respect, we do not agree with Chan SJ’s views. This judgment sets out the decision of this court, which is reached by a majority consisting of Loh J and myself.
PGN is an Indonesian company that owns and operates gas transmission systems in Indonesia. CRW is a group consisting of three Indonesian limited liability companies. In 2006, PGN engaged CRW to design, procure, install, test and pre-commission a pipeline to convey natural gas from South Sumatra to West Java. The parties’ relationship was governed by the Contract, which included (among other documents) a set of conditions of contract (“the Conditions of Contract”). The Conditions of Contract adopted, with modification, the standard provisions of the Conditions of Contract for Construction: For Building and Engineering Works Designed by the Employer (“the Red Book”) published by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers or, as that body is known in French, the Fédération Internationale des Ingénieurs-Conseils (“FIDIC”). Specifically, the Conditions of Contract were modelled on the 1999 edition of the Red Book (“the 1999 Red Book”). The Contract was governed by Indonesian law.
In the course of the project, CRW submitted a number of Variation Order Proposals (“VOPs”) to PGN for variation works which CRW contended it had carried out. These were disputed by PGN. The parties referred their dispute over 13 VOPs to the DAB in accordance with the dispute resolution mechanism set out in cl 20 of the Conditions of Contract.
The material parts of cl 20 provide as follows (we have numbered each sub-clause in square brackets for ease of subsequent reference): 20.4 Obtaining Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision [1] If a dispute (of any kind whatsoever) arises between the Parties in connection with, or arising out of, the Contract or the execution of the Works, including any dispute as to any certificate, determination, instruction, opinion or valuation of the Engineer, either Party may refer the dispute in writing to the DAB for its decision, with copies to the other Party and the Engineer. Such reference shall state that it is given under this Sub-Clause. … [4] Within 84 days after receiving such reference, or within such other period as may be proposed by the DAB and approved by both Parties, the DAB shall give its decision, which shall be reasoned and shall state that it is given under this Sub-Clause. The decision shall be binding on both Parties, who shall promptly give effect to it unless and until it shall be revised in an amicable settlement or an arbitral award as described below. … [5] If either Party is dissatisfied with the DAB’s decision, then either Party may, within 28 days after receiving the decision, give notice to the other Party of its dissatisfaction. If the DAB fails to give its decision within the period of 84 days (or as otherwise approved) after receiving such reference, then either Party may, within 28 days after this period has expired, give notice to the other Party of its dissatisfaction. [6] In either event, this notice of dissatisfaction shall state that it is given under this Sub-Clause, and shall set out the matter in dispute and the reason(s) for dissatisfaction. Except as stated in Sub-Clause 20.7 [Failure to Comply with Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision] and Sub-Clause 20.8 [Expiry of Dispute Adjudication Board’s Appointment], neither Party shall be entitled to commence arbitration of a dispute unless a notice of dissatisfaction has been given in accordance with this Sub-Clause. [7] If the DAB has given its decision as to a matter in dispute to both Parties, and no notice of dissatisfaction has been given by either Party within 28 days after it received the DAB’s decision, then the decision shall become final and binding upon both Parties. 20.5 Amicable Settlement Where notice of dissatisfaction has been given under Sub-Clause 20.4 above, both Parties shall attempt to settle the dispute amicably before the commencement of arbitration. However, unless both Parties agree otherwise, arbitration may be commenced on or after the fifty-sixth day after the day on which notice of dissatisfaction was given, even if no attempt at amicable settlement has been made. 20.6 Arbitration [1] Unless settled amicably, any dispute in respect of which the DAB’s decision (if any) has not become final and binding shall be finally settled by international arbitration. Unless otherwise agreed by both Parties: (a) the dispute shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, (b) the dispute shall be settled by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with these Rules, and (c) the arbitration shall be conducted in the language for communications defined in Sub-Clause 1.4 [Law and Language]. [2] The arbitrator(s) shall have full power to open up, review and revise any certificate, determination, instruction, opinion or valuation of the Engineer, and any decision of the DAB, relevant to the dispute. … [3] Neither Party shall be limited in the proceedings before the arbitrator(s) to the evidence or arguments previously put before the DAB to obtain its decision, or to the reasons for dissatisfaction given in its notice of dissatisfaction. Any decision of the DAB shall be admissible in evidence in the arbitration. … 20.7 Failure to Comply with Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision In the event that: (a) neither Party has given notice of dissatisfaction within the period stated in Sub-Clause 20.4 [Obtaining Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision], (b) the DAB’s related decision (if any) has become final and binding, and (c) a Party fails to comply with this decision, then the other Party may, without prejudice to any other rights it may have, refer the failure itself to arbitration under Sub-Clause 20.6 [Arbitration]. Sub-Clause 20.4 [Obtaining Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision] and Sub-Clause 20.5 [Amicable Settlement] shall not apply to this reference. [emphasis in original omitted; emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
In our judgment, the operation of the aforesaid dispute resolution mechanism, in general, may be summarised as follows: (a) If “a dispute (of any kind whatsoever)” arises between the parties “in connection with, or arising out of, the Contract or the execution of the [w]orks [thereunder]”, either party may refer the dispute in writing to the DAB for its decision. (b) The decision of the DAB shall be binding on both parties, who shall “promptly give effect to it” unless and until it is revised pursuant to an amicable settlement as contemplated in cl 20.5 or by an arbitral award as described in cl 20.6. (c) If either party is dissatisfied with the DAB’s decision, then it may, within 28 days after receiving the decision, issue a notice of dissatisfaction (an “NOD”) to the other party. If no NOD is issued within the stipulated time frame, then the decision of the DAB becomes final and binding. (d) Where an NOD has been issued, the parties are required to first attempt to settle their dispute amicably under cl 20.5 before commencing arbitration. (e) If attempts at amicable settlement are not successful or if no such attempts are made, the parties’ dispute may be referred to arbitration after 56 days from the day on which the NOD is issued. In the course of the arbitration, the tribunal shall have “full power to open up, review and revise” any decision of the DAB that is relevant to the dispute. (f) Where a DAB decision has become final and binding on the parties because no NOD has been issued within the stipulated time frame, but a party fails to comply with it, that failure may be referred to arbitration directly without the parties having to first go through the steps set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5.
The DAB rendered several decisions on the 13 disputed VOPs. PGN accepted all of these decisions except the third decision (“DAB No 3”), under which it was required to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum. This decision was conveyed to the parties on 19 November 2008 at a meeting. The DAB subsequently issued the written grounds for its decision on 25 November 2008. PGN lodged an NOD against DAB No 3 on 20 November 2008 without waiting for those written grounds.
CRW made several requests to PGN for payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, but to no avail. Taking the view that PGN was in breach of its obligations under the Conditions of Contract, CRW commenced arbitration on 13 February 2009 claiming, essentially, a declaration that PGN had an immediate obligation to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum and an order for “prompt payment” of that sum (“the 2009 Arbitration”).
PGN did not file a counterclaim. However, by way of its defence, PGN sought from the tribunal (“the 2009 Tribunal”) a declaration that: (a) DAB No 3 was not final and binding; (b) PGN was not obliged to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum; and (c) PGN had not breached any of its obligations under the Conditions of Contract in refusing to pay CRW that sum. In its defence, PGN also requested the 2009 Tribunal to “open up, review and revise” the DAB’s decision in DAB No 3. PGN’s position, in essence, was that having issued an NOD in respect of DAB No 3, it was no longer obliged to pay the Adjudicated Sum.
The majority of the 2009 Tribunal (“the 2009 Majority Arbitrators”) agreed with CRW. In their award dated 24 November 2009, which they termed a “final” award (“the Final Award”), the 2009 Majority Arbitrators held (at [41]) that cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract made it “abundantly clear” that a DAB decision had to be given prompt effect and could only be varied by a subsequent amicable settlement or arbitral award. The 2009 Majority Arbitrators concluded that service of an NOD did not alter that position. Such service was no more than compliance with a condition precedent that had to be met before a party dissatisfied with a DAB decision could refer that decision to arbitration. The 2009 Majority Arbitrators, and indeed, even CRW, were in agreement that PGN could, if it wished, commence a new arbitration to review and revise DAB No 3, but this was not a course open to it in the 2009 Arbitration because the only relief which CRW had sought in that arbitration was for DAB No 3 to be honoured, and because PGN had not issued a counterclaim to set aside that decision.
Pursuant to its application in Originating Summons No 7 of 2010, CRW obtained leave under s 19 of the IAA to enforce the Final Award in the same manner as a court judgment. PGN applied by way of Originating Summons No 206 of 2010 (“OS 206”) to have the Final Award set aside on various grounds. Primarily, it argued that: (a) the 2009 Majority Arbitrators exceeded their jurisdiction in converting DAB No 3 into a final award without first determining the correctness of the DAB’s decision on the 13 disputed VOPs; (b) the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with cl 20.6 of the Conditions of Contract, which required the 2009 Tribunal to determine the merits of the parties’ underlying dispute over the correctness or the merits of DAB No 3 (the parties “Underlying Dispute”) before DAB No 3 could be converted into a final award; and (c) the 2009 Majority Arbitrators’ refusal and/or failure to hear the parties on the merits of the Underlying Dispute was a breach of natural justice.
The judge who heard OS 206 (“the OS 206 judge”) found in favour of PGN on only the first of the three grounds listed at [11] above and set aside the Final Award on that basis (see PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) TBK v CRW Joint Operation [2010] 4 SLR 672 (“Persero HC (2010)”). She rejected PGN’s contention that the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure had not been complied with and that there had been a breach of natural justice.
CRW appealed against the decision of the OS 206 judge to set aside the Final Award. In its decision issued on 13 July 2011 (reported as CRW Joint Operation v PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) TBK [2011] 4 SLR 305 (“Persero CA”)), the Court of Appeal upheld the OS 206 judge’s decision that the 2009 Majority Arbitrators had exceeded their jurisdiction in failing to consider the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute before issuing the Final Award. The Court of Appeal also held that there had been a breach of natural justice because PGN had not been given a real opportunity to defend itself against the claim for the sum it was ordered to pay CRW under DAB No 3.
In Persero CA, the Court of Appeal commented, obiter, that: (a) PGN was contractually obliged to comply with DAB No 3 even though it had issued an NOD in respect of that decision and the merits of that decision were being arbitrated; and (b) DAB No 3 was “enforceable directly by an interim or partial award” (at [63]). Relying on the Court of Appeal’s interpretation of cl 20 of the Conditions of Contract, CRW commenced a second arbitration in October 2011 (“the 2011 Arbitration”). This time, it sought a final determination that PGN was liable, on the merits, to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, and pending that final determination, a partial or interim award for the same sum (with interest).
The arbitral tribunal in the 2011 Arbitration (“the 2011 Tribunal”) unanimously agreed that DAB No 3 was binding on the parties even though PGN had issued an NOD in respect of that decision. However, the 2011 Tribunal was divided on the issue of whether CRW was entitled to enforce DAB No 3 by way of an interim award. The majority of the 2011 Tribunal (“the 2011 Majority Arbitrators”) thought that DAB No 3 could and should be enforced by an interim award. They opined that enforcing DAB No 3 in that manner would give effect to the parties’ commercial intent in including the DAB mechanism in the Conditions of Contract; otherwise, the DAB mechanism would be rendered toothless.
One of the arguments which the 2011 Tribunal had to deal with was PGN’s contention that the interim award sought by CRW would be inconsistent with s 19B of the IAA (referred to hereafter as “s 19B” for short). Section 19B provides: Effect of award 19B.—(1) An award made by the arbitral tribunal pursuant to an arbitration agreement is final and binding on the parties and on any persons claiming through or under them and may be relied upon by any of the parties by way of defence, set-off or otherwise in any proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction. (2) Except as provided in Articles 33 and 34(4) of the Model Law [ie, the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration], upon an award being made, including an award made in accordance with section 19A, the arbitral tribunal shall not vary, amend, correct, review, add to or revoke the award. (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), an award is made when it has been signed and delivered in accordance with Article 31 of the Model Law. (4) This section shall not affect the right of a person to challenge the award by any available arbitral process of appeal or review or in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Model Law.
PGN contended that the interim award sought by CRW would not be “final” for the purposes of s 19B since DAB No 3 was liable subsequently to be opened up and reviewed pursuant to cl 20.6[2] of the Conditions of Contract at the arbitration of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3. The 2011 Majority Arbitrators disagreed with PGN. They were satisfied that an interim award giving effect to DAB No 3 would possess the requisite measure of finality and would not contravene s 19B. Their explanation was as follows (at [51]–[52] of the Interim Award): 51. The Tribunal [ie, the 2011 Majority Arbitrators] considers that even though [DAB No 3] can be opened up at the arbitration hearing, an award giving effect to it will still be final up to a certain point in time, i.e. pending the resolution of the dispute in the arbitration. Put another way, the decision is final as to the issue before the Tribunal, namely, whether payment has to be made prior to the determination of the matters raised in the NOD. … 52. In other words, an interim award giving effect to [DAB No 3] pending the resolution of the parties’ dispute is still final in the sense that it will not and cannot be altered until the arbitration hearing. ... [underlining in original]
The 2011 Majority Arbitrators therefore granted CRW’s application for an interim award and made the Interim Award ordering PGN to “promptly pay” CRW the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 pending the final resolution of the parties’ Underlying Dispute. The dispositive part of the Interim Award stated: VIII. AWARD AND ORDER 56. Pending the final resolution of the Parties’ dispute raised in these proceedings, including the disputes which are set out in the Notice of Dissatisfaction, the majority of the Tribunal declares that: (i) Upon a true construction of Clause 20 of the [Conditions of] Contract, [DAB No 3] is binding on both Parties who shall promptly give effect to it; and (ii) [PGN] shall promptly pay the sum of US$17,298,834.57 as set out in [DAB No 3]. 57. All other issues in these proceedings, including of interest and costs to be reserved and dealt with in one or more later awards.
The dissenting arbitrator in the 2011 Arbitration regarded the interim award sought by CRW as a provisional award and considered that such an award was precluded in an arbitration seated in Singapore by reason of s 19B. He was of the view that by virtue of cl 20.6 of the Conditions of Contract (see [5] above), an interim award giving effect to a decision of the DAB could be revised, and this, he concluded, was directly contrary to s 19B.
Despite the issuance of the Interim Award, PGN maintained its refusal to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, prompting CRW to apply by way of Originating Summons No 585 of 2013 (“OS 585”) for leave to enforce the Interim Award in the same manner as a court judgment. Leave was given in the form of the Enforcement Order (as defined at [1] above), but PGN subsequently filed Summons No 3923 of 2013 (“SUM 3923”) to set aside that order. At the same time, PGN also filed Originating Summons No 683 of 2013 (“OS 683”) to set aside the Interim Award.
SUM 3923 and OS 683 were heard by the same judge (“the Judge”), who was a different judge from the OS 206 judge. PGN argued that the Interim Award was in effect a provisional award because the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended that award to be final only up to the time the 2011 Tribunal determined the parties’ Underlying Dispute on the merits with finality. The legislative history of s 19B, PGN submitted, revealed that such provisional awards were prohibited by that section. Furthermore, the Interim Award had the effect of preventing the 2011 Tribunal from proceeding to determine the merits of the Underlying Dispute because that future determination would vary, amend, correct, review, add to or revoke the Interim Award in a manner prohibited by s 19B(2). Therefore, PGN contended, the 2011 Majority Arbitrators had acted in excess of their jurisdiction, in breach of natural justice and/or in breach of the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure in issuing the Interim Award, which should therefore be set aside under s 24 of the IAA and/or Art 34(2) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”).
The Judge declined to set aside the Interim Award and dismissed both SUM 3923 and OS 683 (see PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) TBK v CRW Joint Operation (Indonesia) and another matter [2014] SGHC 146 (“Persero HC (2014)”)). He considered a provisional award to be one which granted relief that was intended to be effective only for a limited period (at [124]). He accepted that the Interim Award was a provisional award in so far as it would cease to be effective “when … the 2011 [T]ribunal has resolved with finality every aspect of the one dispute before it” (at [143]). However, he held that there was nothing in s 19B which either prohibited or permitted provisional awards. Additionally, he was of the view that the legislative history of s 19B clearly showed its limited purpose: it was added purely to clarify that all arbitral awards, whether interim or final, were final and conclusive as to the merits of the subject matter determined under the respective awards.
The Judge also held that the Interim Award did not breach s 19B because it was final and binding. He reasoned that the dispositive part of the Interim Award in effect declared that PGN had a contractual obligation to “promptly pay” CRW the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, and ordered PGN to make prompt payment of that sum. Regardless of how the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3 was finally resolved in the future, the Judge stated, it would never cease to be true that PGN had this contractual obligation and ought to have made the requisite payment to CRW promptly. In that sense, the Interim Award was final and binding.
Furthermore, the Judge held, a future determination of the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute would not vary the Interim Award because the final award which set out that future determination could be worded to stand alongside the Interim Award. If the 2011 Tribunal eventually found that the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 was correct, it would merely need to say so in its final award. If the 2011 Tribunal found that the Adjudicated Sum was too little, it would be open to the tribunal to order PGN to pay CRW the additional amount in its final award. Finally, if the 2011 Tribunal found that the Adjudicated Sum was too much, it could require CRW to return the excess to PGN in its final award. In each of these scenarios, the Judge considered, the final award resolving the parties’ Underlying Dispute would not vary, amend, correct, review, add to or revoke the Interim Award. Rather, the Interim Award and the final award would stand together for enforcement. Hence, there would be no breach of s 19B(2).
On the basis of the foregoing, the Judge held that none of PGN’s grounds of challenge (ie, excess of jurisdiction, breach of natural justice and/or breach of the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure) were sustainable. Consequently, both SUM 3923 and OS 683 were dismissed. PGN filed separate Notices of Appeal against each of those decisions (namely, CA 148 in respect of the Judge’s dismissal of OS 683, and CA 149 in respect of his dismissal of SUM 3923).
PGN’s case on appeal consists of two arguments. The first is that the Interim Award is inconsistent with s 19B because it is an award that only has interim finality. According to PGN, both CRW and the 2011 Majority Arbitrators envisaged that the interim award sought by CRW would be “subject to future variation”. It refers to a number of documents to substantiate this submission.
First, it refers to that portion of the Terms of Reference for the 2011 Arbitration where CRW’s claim and the relief which it sought are summarised. It points out that what CRW sought was an interim or partial award for the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 “pending the resolution of [the] parties’ dispute” [emphasis added]. Second, it refers to CRW’s Statement of Claim for the 2011 Arbitration and highlights that, similarly, CRW expressly stated at para 30(a) thereof that it sought an interim or partial award “pending the resolution of [the] parties’ dispute” [emphasis added]. PGN argues that the word “pending” in these two documents demonstrates that CRW never intended the interim relief which it sought to finally dispose of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3. Instead, it always acknowledged the possibility that any interim award made by the 2011 Tribunal to give effect to DAB No 3 could be varied by a final award on the merits of that DAB decision.
The third document which PGN submits supports its first argument on appeal is the Interim Award. PGN points to [37] of that award, where the 2011 Majority Arbitrators summarised CRW’s position in the 2011 Arbitration as follows: 37. … The Tribunal further acknowledges that [CRW] had at the Preliminary Hearing on 2 March 2012, confirmed its position (which has been recorded in the scope of the Terms of Reference) that: (i) [CRW] would be relying on [DAB No 3] as the basis for its application for an Interim Award; and (ii) … in the event that it was unsuccessful at the Interim Award stage, it would continue to rely upon [DAB No 3] in seeking any Final Award, and would not seek to open up and revise [DAB No 3].
In this regard, PGN also refers to [51]–[52] of the Interim Award (reproduced at [17] above) and argues that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators were themselves of the view that the Interim Award would eventually be “altered” by the 2011 Tribunal’s final award on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute.
The fourth document which PGN relies on in respect of its first argument before this court is a unanimous partial award dated 25 September 2014 (“the Partial Award”), which was made in the 2011 Arbitration after SUM 3923 and OS 683 were heard by the Judge. PGN seeks to have the Partial Award admitted into evidence by way of Summons No 5277 of 2014 (“SUM 5277”). Our decision on SUM 5277 is set out below at [37]–[40], together with our decision on PGN’s other application for leave to adduce further evidence, Summons No 5985 of 2014 (“SUM 5985”) (see [41]–[44] below). For the time being, we simply set out the argument that PGN makes based on the Partial Award.
In evaluating CRW’s claim against PGN in respect of the 13 disputed VOPs, the DAB formulated nine heads of claim (“Heads of Claim”). One of the questions which the 2011 Tribunal addressed in the Partial Award was whether the DAB’s decision on each of the nine Heads of Claim was in accordance with Indonesian law and the provisions of the Contract (including the Conditions of Contract). The 2011 Tribunal summarised its overall conclusion at [100.6]–[100.8] of the Partial Award. Only [100.6(a)] and [100.6(c)] are relevant for present purposes, and they state as follows: a) Heads of Claim Nos. 6 (Manufacture and Installation of Additional Bends) and 8 (Additional Costs associated with work at the Northern End of the Site in Areas of Reduced Width of Way-leave) are dismissed; … c) This Partial Award revises the previous majority Interim Award insofar as Heads of Claim Nos. 6 and 8 are dismissed. … [emphasis added]
PGN’s second argument on appeal concerns the effect of cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract. PGN argues that the effect of cl 20.4 is that DAB No 3 ceases to be binding as soon as the 2011 Tribunal makes any award on the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of that DAB decision. Here, the 2011 Tribunal has made certain findings on the merits of DAB No 3 as set out in the Partial Award. PGN argues that DAB No 3 thus ceased to have any binding effect as from the date of issuance of the Partial Award (ie, 25 September 2014). However, it does not go further to explain why the Interim Award, which is founded upon DAB No 3, should therefore be set aside.
We note at this point that PGN bears the burden of demonstrating that one or more of the grounds listed in s 24 of the IAA and/or Art 34(2) of the Model Law for setting aside an arbitral award are satisfied before the Interim Award can be set aside. PGN has not explained which specific ground for setting aside would be satisfied if either or both of its arguments on appeal are accepted. However, we understand the essence of PGN’s case to be that if either or both of these arguments are made out, it will have established that the Interim Award was subject to revision and was hence not final; since such a non-final award would be contrary to s 19B, which is part of the law governing the 2011 Arbitration, it would follow that the 2011 Arbitration was not conducted in accordance with the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure. If PGN can establish this, its challenge to the Interim Award would fall within Art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the Model Law.
CRW’s response to PGN’s first argument on appeal hinges on the distinct and separate nature of two questions which CRW says were put to the 2011 Tribunal in the 2011 Arbitration. The first question is whether CRW is entitled to the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 as a final determination of what is ultimately due to it. This, CRW accepts, will entail evaluating DAB No 3 on the merits, and can only be determined after an arbitration that examines and inquires into those merits. The second question is whether CRW is entitled to an immediate award for the Adjudicated Sum on the basis that CRW is entitled to this sum as a matter of the proper interpretation of the Conditions of Contract, even though the 2011 Tribunal’s final determination of the first question may eventually lead to a different result. CRW maintains that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators finally disposed of the second question in the Interim Award. The Interim Award, CRW submits, will not be varied by a future final award on the first question because the latter award will deal with only that specific question. CRW also argues that s 19B only precludes the variation by a later award of an interim award previously made, and not the making of an interim award such as the Interim Award in this case.
As regards PGN’s second argument on appeal, CRW contends that PGN’s interpretation of cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract is not commercially sensible. It argues that the commercially sensible way of reading cl 20.4 is that DAB No 3 only ceases to be binding upon the final determination of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of that DAB decision, and even if there is any partial determination of the merits of DAB No 3 in the meantime, this would not affect the Interim Award.
As mentioned earlier, by way of SUM 5277 and SUM 5985, PGN seeks to adduce further evidence for the purposes of the present appeals. The further evidence which is the subject matter of SUM 5277 is the second affidavit of Mr Muhammad Husseyn Umar (“Mr Umar”), while the further evidence which is the subject matter of SUM 5985 is the fourth affidavit of Mr Umar.
Mr Umar’s second affidavit pertains to new developments in the 2011 Arbitration that occurred after the hearing before the Judge. The exhibits in that affidavit include the parties’ submissions to the 2011 Tribunal on the matters considered in the Partial Award and the Partial Award itself. Apart from what we have already mentioned in relation to the Partial Award (see [30]–[31] above), PGN also points out that the 2011 Tribunal considered the possibility of collusion between the DAB and CRW. During the hearing before the 2011 Tribunal, CRW’s representative, Mr Boy Eka Setiabudhi (“Mr Setiabudhi”), admitted that the DAB had prepared his witness statement. The 2011 Tribunal ruled in the Partial Award that PGN had failed to cross the high threshold necessary to make out either bad faith on the DAB’s part in arriving at its decision in DAB No 3 or collusion between the DAB and CRW. However, it also stated (at [76] of the Partial Award) that it “may not have been advisable [for the DAB] to … draft witness statements on behalf of any party”.
PGN argues that it should be given leave to adduce Mr Umar’s second affidavit in evidence because that affidavit supports its case on appeal. According to PGN, the Partial Award demonstrates that the Interim Award was only meant to have interim finality. Furthermore, although the 2011 Tribunal did not consider bad faith and/or collusion on the part of the DAB to have been made out, it made the observation at [37] above on the propriety of the DAB’s preparation of Mr Setiabudhi’s witness statement. PGN maintains that Mr Setiabudhi’s admission that the DAB had prepared his witness statement and the 2011 Tribunal’s aforesaid observation highlight that “there is a real risk that the DAB was acting unfairly and/or may have colluded with [CRW]”. In view of this, PGN submits, the Interim Award should be set aside; otherwise, the above-mentioned discrepancies will simply be whitewashed.
CRW does not appear to contest the admission of the evidence set out in Mr Umar’s second affidavit. In fact, it relies on the same to demonstrate that the 2011 Tribunal is currently still in the process of reviewing the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute. Additionally, CRW deals with the merits of PGN’s arguments predicated on the new evidence. It argues that the Partial Award does not change the final and binding nature of the Interim Award because the Interim Award only deals with the distinct issue of whether CRW is entitled, pursuant to cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract, to prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, notwithstanding the fact that the 2011 Tribunal’s final determination of the merits of the Underlying Dispute is still pending. The 2011 Tribunal’s subsequent ruling in the Partial Award that CRW is not entitled to the quantum claimed under certain Heads of Claim, CRW submits, is only relevant in so far as the separate issue of its final entitlement to the Adjudicated Sum or any other sum determined by the 2011 Tribunal is concerned.
In our judgment, it is relevant for us to consider the effect which the Partial Award has on the finality of the Interim Award. Additionally, we note CRW’s willingness to address the merits of PGN’s arguments predicated on the Partial Award. In the circumstances, we allow SUM 5277 and admit Mr Umar’s second affidavit.
Mr Umar’s fourth affidavit pertains to further developments in the 2011 Arbitration after the Partial Award was issued. CRW was directed by the 2011 Tribunal to set out its justification for the quantum which it claimed under each of the Heads of Claim that the tribunal had ordered (via the Partial Award) to be opened up, reviewed and revised. CRW took the position that its basis of calculating the quantum which it was entitled to under the 13 disputed VOPs was different from that adopted by the DAB.
PGN argues that the evidence pertaining to these new developments is relevant because CRW’s attempt to introduce a new basis of calculation raises the question of whether the Interim Award, which is based on DAB No 3, was properly rendered. PGN suggests that it was not properly rendered since it appears that CRW itself intends to challenge the entire basis of DAB No 3.
CRW, on the other hand, argues that the evidence in Mr Umar’s fourth affidavit is irrelevant for the purposes of the present appeals as it relates to the 2011 Tribunal’s consideration of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3. That, CRW submits, is a distinct matter which has no bearing on whether DAB No 3 should be enforced by way of the Interim Award pending the 2011 Tribunal’s determination of the parties’ Underlying Dispute.
We agree with CRW that Mr Umar’s fourth affidavit relates to the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute and not the Interim Award, and therefore has no relevance to the present appeals. Accordingly, we dismiss SUM 5985.
We digress briefly at this point to resolve some points of terminology before proceeding to analyse PGN’s two arguments on appeal. The terms “partial” award and “interim” award are often used interchangeably to refer to the same category of arbitral awards (see Gary B Born, International Commercial Arbitration Vol III (Wolters Kluwer, 2nd Ed, 2014) (“Born”) at p 3020; and Nigel Blackaby et al, Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (Oxford University Press, 5th Ed, 2009) at paras 9.19–9.25). In broad terms, this category of arbitral awards refers to awards made in the course of the arbitral proceedings that dispose of certain preliminary issues or certain claims for relief prior to the disposition of all the issues in the arbitration.
Born defines a “partial” award (at p 3015) as one which: … finally disposes of part, but not all, of the parties’ claim in an arbitration, leaving some claims for further consideration and resolution in future proceedings in the arbitration.
In contradistinction, an “interim” award (see Born at p 3020) is one which: … does not dispose finally of a particular claim (e.g., one of several claims for damages arising from several alleged breaches of contract), but instead decides a preliminary issue relevant to [the] disposing of such claims (e.g., choice of law, liability, construction of a particular provision). In this sense, an award is “interim” because it is a step towards disposing of a portion of the parties’ claim (like a partial award), but does not purport to make a final decision either granting or rejecting those claims.
Both partial awards and interim awards are capable of being recognised and enforced by domestic courts. They are also susceptible to being set aside (see Born at pp 3018 and 3021).
“Provisional” awards, on the other hand, are awards that are issued to protect a party from damage during the course of the arbitral process. Gary B Born, International Commercial Arbitration Vol II (Wolters Kluwer, 2nd Ed, 2014) defines a “provisional” award (at p 2427) as one that is: … intended to preserve a factual or legal situation so as to safeguard rights the recognition of which is sought from the tribunal having jurisdiction as to the substance of the case.
It is evident that provisional awards do not definitively or finally dispose of either a preliminary issue or a claim in an arbitration. Examples of provisional awards include those: (a) maintaining the status quo; (b) preserving assets; (c) preserving evidence or providing for inspection of property; (d) preventing aggravation of the parties’ dispute; (e) ordering the provision of security for underlying claims; (f) ordering the provision of security for costs; and (g) ordering compliance with a confidentiality obligation (see Gary B Born, International Arbitration: Law and Practice (Wolters Kluwer, 2012) at p 210). An order for the interim payment of damages prior to the final assessment of damages taking place, as is contemplated (in an admittedly different but nonetheless useful context for illustrative purposes) in O 29 r 9 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed), as well as the award dealt with in Diag Human SE v Czech Republic [2013] All ER (D) 309 (although the tribunal in that case appears, in our judgment, to have mistakenly characterised the award as a partial rather than a provisional award) would also fall in this category. Such orders are inherently capable of being varied in due course. They do not give rise to a finding on or a determination of the substantive rights of the parties and, therefore, are provisional in nature. Section 12 of the IAA expressly permits an arbitral tribunal to make several such orders or directions in the course of an arbitration. However, s 2 of the IAA provides that such orders or directions are not to be regarded as “award[s]” for the purposes of the IAA.
The term “final” award can be understood in a number of ways. First, it can refer to an award which resolves a claim or matter in an arbitration with preclusive effect (ie, the same claim or matter cannot be re-litigated). Even provisional awards are “final” in this sense. As Born states (at pp 3013–3014): … Even awards granting provisional relief can be considered to be “final”, notwithstanding the fact that they will be superseded by subsequent relief, because they finally dispose of a particular request for relief. … [E]very award rendered during the course of an arbitration, before its final conclusion, is “final” because of the preclusive effect that it enjoys.
Second, it can refer to awards that have achieved a sufficient degree of finality in the arbitral seat. Born states that this would most obviously be so in cases where the award is granted “confirmation or exequatur”, or is no longer susceptible to being appealed against or being subject to annulment proceedings in the arbitral seat (at p 3014).
Third, it can refer to the last award made in an arbitration which disposes of all remaining claims. This is a “final” award in the sense used in Art 32(1) of the Model Law.
Against the background set out at [45]–[53] above, we turn to the substantive issues before this court. In sum, we reject PGN’s first argument on appeal because it fails to appreciate that cl 20.4 of the 1999 Red Book (which is identical to cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract) imposes a distinct contractual obligation on the parties to comply promptly with a DAB decision once it is issued. This is so whether or not the DAB decision is subsequently revised or opened up, and whether or not the arbitral tribunal eventually concludes that a different amount from that determined by the DAB is in fact due to the receiving party (ie, the party that is to receive payment under the DAB decision). In brief terms, the scheme under a contract which incorporates the dispute resolution mechanism set out in cl 20 of the 1999 Red Book is that any differences as to matters arising under the contract may be resolved in the first instance by the DAB. The DAB’s decision (if it is sought) must be complied with and acted upon at once. However, a party that is dissatisfied with the DAB’s decision may challenge it. Without derogating from the obligation of the parties to immediately implement and give effect to the DAB’s decision, an arbitral tribunal may, usually at a significantly later point in time (and only if the parties fail to amicably settle their differences over the DAB’s decision), open up and revise the DAB’s decision. In doing so, the tribunal would be considering a conceptually distinct question, namely, the state of the final accounts between the parties. We do not agree that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended the Interim Award which they made to be subsequently varied by future awards that would be issued in the course of the 2011 Arbitration. Even if they did, s 19B operates to render the Interim Award final and binding as regards the particular issue which that award decided, namely, PGN’s obligation under cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract to make prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 to CRW. Nothing that the 2011 Tribunal says or does can change that. We elaborate below.
We begin with the interpretation of cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract in so far as the effect of a DAB decision is concerned. In our judgment, that clause imposes one distinct contractual obligation on the parties and confers a conditional right on a party who wishes to challenge a DAB decision. First, as to the obligation, we are satisfied that cl 20.4 (specifically, cl 20.4[4]) imposes an affirmative obligation on the parties to “promptly give effect to [a DAB decision]”. In particular, the paying party (ie, the party that is required to make any payment under the DAB’s decision) has a contractual obligation to pay promptly, notwithstanding its views on the merits of the DAB’s decision. This point is neatly encapsulated by Prof Nael G Bunni (“Prof Bunni”) in his article entitled “The Gap in Sub-clause 20.7 of the 1999 FIDIC Contracts for Major Works” [2005] ICLR 272 as follows (at p 276): … The [DAB’s] decision must be complied with by both parties, which is a characteristic feature of the FIDIC DAB procedure … The decision becomes, in effect, a contractual obligation on both parties such that non-compliance with it by either of them is a breach of contract and the party in breach would be liable in damages.
This follows from the plain words of cl 20.4[4] of the Conditions of Contract: … The [DAB’s] decision shall be binding on both Parties, who shall promptly give effect to it unless and until it shall be revised in an amicable settlement or an arbitral award as described below. … [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
In our judgment, the following propositions cannot persuasively be disputed and bear emphasis: (a) A DAB decision is immediately binding once it is made. This may be distinguished from a DAB decision in respect of which no NOD has been issued within the stipulated 28-day time frame. Such a DAB decision, under cl 20.4[7], becomes “final and binding” [emphasis added]. (b) The corollary of a DAB decision being immediately binding once it is made is that the parties are obliged to promptly give effect to it until such time as it is overtaken or revised by either an amicable settlement or a subsequent arbitral award. (c) The fact that a DAB decision is immediately binding once it is made until and unless it is revised by either an amicable settlement or an arbitral award is significant. As will be evident shortly from our discussion of the second of the two points mentioned at [55] above in relation to cl 20.4, the process of amicable settlement under cl 20.5 or arbitration under cl 20.6 may only be initiated by a party with a view to having the DAB decision reviewed and revised if that party has issued an NOD. Hence, the issuance of an NOD self-evidently does not and cannot displace the binding nature of a DAB decision or the parties’ concomitant obligation to promptly give effect to and implement it.
Our second point in relation to cl 20.4 concerns the dissatisfied party’s conditional right to challenge a DAB decision. A dissatisfied party (usually the paying party) who wishes to challenge a DAB decision must issue an NOD, and thereafter first attempt to amicably settle its disagreement with the DAB decision with the other party. It is only if no amicable settlement is reached or if no attempt at amicable settlement is made that the dissatisfied party has, after 56 days from the date of issuance of the NOD, the right to refer the merits of the DAB decision to arbitration. This follows from: (a) cl 20.4[5], which provides that either party, if dissatisfied with a DAB decision, may, within 28 days after receiving the decision, give notice of its dissatisfaction by issuing an NOD; (b) cl 20.4[6], which provides that except as permitted under cl 20.7 or cl 20.8, no party may commence arbitration unless an NOD has been issued; (c) cl 20.4[7], which provides that if an NOD is not issued within 28 days after receipt of the DAB decision, the decision shall become final and binding; (d) cl 20.5, which states that if an NOD has been issued, the parties are to attempt to settle their dispute amicably before commencing arbitration; and (e) cl 20.6, which states that “any dispute in respect of which the DAB’s decision … has not become final and binding” shall, unless settled amicably pursuant to cl 20.5, be “finally settled by international arbitration”.
It follows that the issuance of an NOD is a condition precedent to a dissatisfied party’s ability to seek a review of a DAB decision on the merits through either negotiations aimed at amicable settlement or arbitration. But, as noted above, the issuance of an NOD does not in any way displace the binding (albeit non-final) effect of the DAB decision in question or the parties’ obligation to promptly give effect to and implement it. If an NOD has been issued and if no amicable settlement of the parties’ dispute is reached (or no attempt at amicable settlement is made) within 56 days from the date of issuance of the NOD, then – and only then – the DAB decision in question may be opened up, reviewed and revised at an arbitration which is directed towards the merits of that decision.
With regard to the first point that we have referred to at [55] above (namely, the parties’ obligation to comply promptly with a DAB decision), where compliance entails payment of a sum of money determined by the DAB, the question arises as to whether this obligation, if it is not complied with, is capable of being enforced by way of a separate arbitration or, for that matter, by way of a separate interim award within the same arbitration that is also concerned with the underlying merits of that DAB decision. We recognise that there are different views on this. However, in our judgment, this obligation is capable of being enforced by arbitration in the manner just described for the reasons set out below.
To begin with, we return to the dispute resolution framework set out in cl 20 of the Conditions of Contract, especially cl 20.6 (which has been reproduced at [5] above), the effect of all of which has been summarised at [6] above. To recapitulate, this framework contemplates that “a dispute (of any kind whatsoever) … in connection with, or arising out of, the Contract or the execution of the [w]orks [thereunder]” may be referred to a DAB for its decision. If such a dispute is indeed referred to a DAB and if the DAB’s decision has not become final and binding because of the issuance of an NOD within the permitted time frame, the dispute shall be resolved: (a) first, by amicable settlement, if possible; and (b) failing amicable settlement, by arbitration.
The first question which arises is whether the disputes that may be referred to arbitration exclude certain categories of disputes which must be resolved in some other way. In our judgment, the broad terms used in cl 20.4[1] and cl 20.6[1], which refer respectively to “a dispute (of any kind whatsoever)” and “any dispute in respect of which the DAB’s decision … has not become final and binding”, militate against this.
The specific dispute in the present appeals is a narrow one – it is whether a DAB decision ordering the payment of a sum of money gives rise to an immediate obligation on the part of a paying party who has issued an NOD in respect of that decision to promptly make the payment ordered by the DAB. Such a dispute could conceivably be referred back, in the first instance, to the DAB since it undoubtedly is one that “arises between the [p]arties in connection with, or arising out of, the [c]ontract” as provided in cl 20.4[1]. If such a dispute is so referred and if the DAB resolves it affirmatively, there can really be no objection to that later DAB decision (ie, the DAB decision that a binding but non-final DAB decision ordering the payment of a specified sum does give rise to an immediate obligation on the paying party’s part to promptly pay that sum) being subsequently referred to arbitration (under cl 20.6 if an NOD is issued and no amicable settlement under cl 20.5 is reached, or under cl 20.6 read with cl 20.7 if no NOD is issued), or to the issuance of an arbitral award which affirms the later DAB decision.
The real question then is whether it is essential to first go through the process of referring a dispute over the “binding” effect of a binding but non-final DAB decision – ie, a DAB decision in respect of which an NOD has been issued – back to the DAB under cl 20.4 and then through a further process of amicable settlement under cl 20.5 before referring it to arbitration under cl 20.6.
Mr Christopher R Seppälä (“Mr Seppälä”), who assisted FIDIC in drafting the predecessor of cl 20.7 of the 1999 Red Book (ie, cl 67.4 of the 1987 edition of the Red Book (“the 1987 Red Book”)) – the sub-clause which has given rise to much of the confusion – has argued that this is unnecessary. In his article entitled “Sub-Clause 20.7 of the FIDIC Red Book does not justify denying enforcement of a ‘binding’ DAB decision” (2011) 6(3) CLInt 17, he opines that a failure to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision can be referred directly to arbitration. In such a case, there is no need for the receiving party in whose favour the DAB has ruled to refer its dispute with the paying party over the latter’s non-compliance with the binding but non-final DAB decision to the DAB for a further decision by the DAB prior to commencing arbitration. Mr Seppälä observes that in most cases, the party that issued the NOD (usually the paying party) would have referred the merits of the DAB decision to arbitration, and its failure to promptly comply with the DAB decision can then be dealt with as an issue within that arbitration (at p 19). Mr Seppälä appears to take the view that the NOD which is issued by the paying party in respect of the substantive merits of the DAB decision is sufficient to permit the receiving party to refer its dispute with the paying party over the latter’s non-compliance with that DAB decision to arbitration. This is evident from the following excerpt from his article (at p 20): … [T]ribunals and courts are, therefore, with respect, going too far to suggest that, because Sub-Clause 20.7 does not refer to binding decisions of a DAB, a failure to comply with a binding decision may not be referred to arbitration. It was unnecessary to deal with binding decisions, as it was clear – or so it was thought – that, as these had been the subject of a notice of dissatisfaction, these could, by definition, be referred to arbitration under Sub-Clause 20.6 … [emphasis added]
In our judgment, the position that Mr Seppälä has argued for is self-evidently sensible for several reasons: (a) First, in cases where an NOD has been issued such that the DAB decision concerned remains binding but non-final, it is important to be precise as to what the real difference between the parties is. This can be explained by reference to the facts in the present appeals. When the dispute emerged between PGN and CRW over the matters that would later become the subject matter of DAB No 3, it was referred to the DAB. The explicit decision in DAB No 3 was that the Adjudicated Sum was payable by PGN to CRW. But, in our judgment, there was also an inherent premise embedded within that decision, which is that the Adjudicated Sum was payable forthwith. If, for any reason, the DAB had intended that its decision ordering payment of the Adjudicated Sum should only take effect later, it would have had to make this explicit; otherwise, it seems indisputable to us that DAB No 3 also required the Adjudicated Sum to be paid forthwith by PGN to CRW. When PGN then issued its NOD, it undoubtedly meant to convey its dissatisfaction both with the explicit premise of DAB No 3 (namely, the valuation by the DAB of CRW’s claims) as well as with its inherent premise (namely, that the Adjudicated Sum was payable forthwith). If and to the extent this was not made clear on the face of PGN’s NOD itself, it was undoubtedly made clear in the positions that PGN took in the 2009 Arbitration as well as in the 2011 Arbitration. In our judgment, this understanding of the true nature of the difference between the parties – namely, as comprising two facets, one explicit and the other, inherent – is reflected in Mr Seppälä’s statement in the extract reproduced at [65] above that: … It was unnecessary to deal with binding decisions, as it was clear – or so it was thought – that, as these had been the subject of a notice of dissatisfaction, these could, by definition, be referred to arbitration under Sub-Clause 20.6. … [emphasis added in italics and bold italics] The point, in essence, is that the dissatisfaction expressed in an NOD already inherently extends to the requirement that payment of the adjudicated amount be made forthwith, and there is nothing further to be referred back to the DAB. This also follows as a matter of logic: after all, what purpose can it serve to ask a DAB whether a decision which it has already issued requiring one party to make payment to the other should be promptly complied with? Why else would the DAB have issued its decision in the first place? In this regard, it bears reiteration that cl 20.4[4] of the Conditions of Contract explicitly states that the parties “shall promptly give effect” [emphasis added] to a binding but non-final DAB decision. The contrary argument – namely, that a DAB decision need not be complied with once an NOD has been issued in respect of it – seems to us to assume a surreal quality. The purpose of a DAB is to render interim decisions that bind the parties until an amicable settlement of their dispute is reached or an arbitral award that resolves the underlying merits of their dispute is made; and the simple point is that given the scheme of the Conditions of Contract as we have analysed it at [55]–[57] above, any requirement to refer a question as to the immediate binding effect of a binding but non-final DAB decision back to the DAB seems to us not only wholly superfluous, but also contrary to the express words of cl 20.4[4]. (b) Second, the receiving party would encounter a number of practical difficulties if it is required to go through the steps set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5 before it can refer the paying party’s non-compliance with a binding but non-final DAB decision to arbitration. As noted by the Judge at [45] of Persero HC (2014), there would be an inordinate delay. The receiving party would have to wait up to 84 days (or such other period proposed by the DAB and agreed to by the parties) for the DAB to render its decision on the separate dispute as to whether the earlier binding but non-final DAB decision is to be complied with promptly, plus another 28 days from the date of receipt of the later DAB decision (answering the question of whether the paying party has an obligation to promptly comply with the earlier binding but non-final DAB decision) to see whether that decision becomes “final and binding” by virtue of no NOD being issued within the stipulated 28-day period. If either party issues an NOD within the permitted time frame, a further 56 days would have to pass to enable the parties to attempt to amicably settle their dispute over the paying party’s non-compliance with the earlier (binding but non-final) DAB decision. Given the purpose and context of the DAB scheme, it would not be commercially sensible to interpret cl 20 as requiring the receiving party to satisfy the conditions precedent in cll 20.4 and 20.5 before it can refer a dispute over the paying party’s non-compliance with a binding but non-final DAB decision to arbitration.
This view is endorsed by FIDIC itself. FIDIC issued a Guidance Memorandum for users of the 1999 Red Book on 1 April 2013 (“the FIDIC Guidance Memorandum”), where it set out its view on how it intended cl 20 to be interpreted. It stated: This Guidance Memorandum is designed to make explicit the intentions of FIDIC in relation to the enforcement of the DAB decisions that are binding and not yet final, which is that in the case of failure to comply with these decisions, the failure itself should be capable of being referred to arbitration under Sub-Clause 20.6 [Arbitration], without Sub-Clause 20.4 [Obtaining Dispute Adjudication Board’s Decision] and Sub-Clause 20.5 [Amicable Settlement] being applicable to the reference. [emphasis in original omitted; emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
In our judgment, it is significant that the FIDIC Guidance Memorandum is directed at “mak[ing] explicit” the identical point which we have canvassed above at [64]–[66], namely, that it is unnecessary to go through the process set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5 before referring a failure to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision to arbitration under cl 20.6. We do not consider that this approach would extend the scope of the arbitration agreement set out in cl 20.6 at all because it is already possible to refer a failure to honour a binding but non-final DAB decision to arbitration for the reasons we have set out at [61]–[63] and [66(a)] above. Rather, the real issue is over the necessity to go through the preliminary steps set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5 before commencing arbitration. In this regard, FIDIC opted (in our judgment, wisely and sensibly) to “make explicit the intentions of FIDIC” that are already implicit in the cl 20 dispute resolution framework for the reasons we have articulated. Moreover, the FIDIC Guidance Memorandum itself, in the section entitled “Background”, makes it clear that it is intended to clarify a point that many arbitral tribunals have found to be “unclear”: A substantial number of arbitral tribunals have found Clause 20 to be unclear on the issue of whether a [P]arty may refer the failure of the other Party to comply with a DAB decision that is ‘binding’ but not ‘final’ to arbitration as is explicitly the case of a ‘final and binding’ decision under Sub-Clause 20.7. … [emphasis added]
This is hardly the language of extension. It is true that in its guidance memorandum, FIDIC suggested that cl 20.7 (among other provisions of the 1999 Red Book) be amended, but this does not alter the fact that FIDIC’s proposed amendment to cl 20.7 is aimed at clarifying, rather than changing, its existing position and intention in relation to the dispute resolution framework under cl 20. The inquiry cannot end at FIDIC’s proposed amendment to cl 20.7. The real question is whether FIDIC intended (via its guidance memorandum) to recommend changes to the substantive position under cl 20. The FIDIC Guidance Memorandum in fact makes it clear that the issuance of the memorandum was driven by the lack of a consistent understanding of FIDIC’s intention (including on the part of our courts, culminating in the decision in Persero CA). In our judgment, this is inconsistent with any intention to change the substantive position under cl 20. Further, we do not in any case think that the absence of the suggested amendment from cl 20.7 of the Conditions of Contract in the present case renders it inappropriate to find, as we do (in line with Mr Seppälä’s contention), that the dispute over PGN’s non-compliance with the DAB’s binding but non-final decision in DAB No 3 was within the scope of the arbitration agreement in the Conditions of Contract. There is certainly nothing in the FIDIC Guidance Memorandum to suggest that FIDIC itself doubted whether, absent this suggested amendment, it would be possible to refer a failure to honour a binding but non-final DAB decision to arbitration directly without the parties having to first go through the preliminary steps set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5.
PGN argues that the Conditions of Contract should not be interpreted with reference to the FIDIC Guidance Memorandum because that was issued after the parties entered into the Contract (which includes, among other documents, the Conditions of Contract). We find no force in this argument. First, it is clear from the careful language which FIDIC adopted in that memorandum that it was merely making “explicit” what was all along implicit in cl 20 itself. As we have already said, we consider, for the reasons we have already set out above, that, indeed, it is implicit in cl 20 that a failure to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision is capable of being directly referred to arbitration without the need for the parties to first go through the process prescribed by cll 20.4 and 20.5.
One point that seems to have attracted almost universal acceptance in this case, save of course on the part of PGN, is that cl 20.4 (specifically, cl 20.4[4]) evinces a clear intention for parties to promptly comply with a DAB decision, irrespective of any disagreement or dissatisfaction with it. This serves the vital objective of safeguarding cash flow in the building and construction industry, especially that of the contractor, who is usually the receiving party. The intention underlying cl 20.4 would be completely undermined if the receiving party were restricted to treating the paying party’s non-compliance as a breach of contract that sounds only in damages and must be pursued before the available domestic courts.
Such a view is incompatible with the express language of cl 20.4 as well as with the analysis we have set out at [55]–[69] above. In addition, we consider that there are a number of other grave difficulties with such a view, namely: (a) If the receiving party is confined to seeking damages for being denied sums that are eventually found to be due to it, it would seem that the receiving party has no more than a right to pre-award interest or, perhaps, a claim for financing charges. This would be an unduly – and, in our judgment, an unsustainably – parsimonious construction of cl 20.4 since courts and tribunals will often already have the power to grant pre-award interest or allow claims for financing charges. (b) Secondly, if the contention is that an order may be made to enforce the obligation to promptly give effect to a binding but non-final DAB decision, but only by the local courts and not by an arbitral tribunal established pursuant to the parties’ contract, that would be a very narrow contention and one that seems implausible. This is because it would suggest that the intention underlying the dispute resolution framework contained in the 1999 Red Book is to carve out from the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal all matters relating to the immediate enforcement of binding but non-final DAB decisions and to vest only that specific jurisdiction in the courts, while preserving for the arbitral tribunal the jurisdiction to rule on the merits of such DAB decisions. To our knowledge, it has never been suggested that this was FIDIC’s intention when the predecessor of cl 20 was drafted. Moreover, such a construction fails to explain why a dispute over whether or not a binding but non-final DAB decision is to be immediately complied with cannot be directly referred to arbitration as set out at [61]–[66] above. To say that this is so because such a dispute is not a “dispute” as that term is used in cl 20.4, with respect, flies in the face of what constitutes a “dispute” for the purposes of an arbitration agreement (see Tjong Very Sumito and others v Antig Investments Pte Ltd [2009] 4 SLR(R) 732 at [33]–[34]) as well as what PGN has in fact contended at various stages of this protracted dispute between the parties. (c) Further, it is not clear whether a claim by the receiving party for pre-award interest or financing charges, on the alternative hypothesis set out at [72(a)] above, would be capable of being brought before the arbitration of the merits of the parties’ underlying dispute has been completed. After all, can it be said that a claim for damages in the form of financing charges or a claim for pre-award interest would accrue before it has been finally determined what is actually due to the receiving party? If not, this would pose a considerable obstacle because such a determination would only take place at the end of the arbitration of the underlying dispute. By then, if the arbitral tribunal rules in favour of the receiving party, he would have an award he can enforce and there would be no need to enforce the DAB decision, which would have been superseded by the award; nor, generally, would there be any need for the receiving party to go to the courts at all in such circumstances. (d) All of this also wholly undermines any expectation which the receiving party may have of obtaining prompt payment of the sum awarded to it under a DAB decision.
Additionally, in some circumstances, it may be vital that parties promptly comply with a DAB decision. By way of example, Prof Bunni has suggested that in some cases, prompt compliance may be necessary simply to enable a party to continue to participate in the arbitration of the merits of the DAB decision concerned. He puts it in this way at p 278 of the article referred to above at [55]: … If, for example, the [DAB’s decision] involves a large sum of money to be paid to the contractor who is experiencing financial difficulties, then the employer’s failure to make such payment promptly might mean the difference between the contractor on the one hand being able to afford to continue in the arbitration; and on the other hand being under such economic pressure that he is forced to concede to the employer. …
Indeed, this is true even aside from such dire circumstances. Given the nature of the building and construction industry, it is of general importance that contractors are paid promptly where the contract so provides. As explained by the Judge at [23] of Persero HC (2014): … Contractors invariably extend credit to their employer by performing services or providing goods in advance of payment. Contractors are also almost invariably the party in the weaker bargaining and financial position as compared to their employer. A payment dispute between an employer and a contractor takes time and money to settle on the merits and with finality. Doing so invariably disrupts the contractor’s cash flow. That disruption can have serious and sometimes permanent consequences for the contractor. That potential disruption gives the employer significant leverage in any negotiations between the parties for compromise. If the contractor’s payment claim is justified, that disruption and its consequences for the contractor are unjustified.
In our judgment, cl 20.4 is aimed at addressing precisely these concerns, and cl 20 should therefore be interpreted in a manner which promotes prompt compliance with a DAB decision, including, as noted above (and also by FIDIC), by enabling a failure to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision to be directly referred to arbitration without the parties having to first go through the steps prescribed by cll 20.4 and 20.5. In this regard, Frederic Gillion has suggested in his article “Enforcement of DAB Decisions under the 1999 FIDIC Conditions of Contract: A Recent Development: CRW Joint Operation v. PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero) TBK” [2011] ICLR 388 (at p 408) that the receiving party should seek an award: … giving full immediate effect to [its] right to have a DAB decision complied with promptly in accordance with sub-clause 20.4 or to damages in respect of the losing party’s breach of sub-clause 20.4. That award will be final in that it will dispose of the issue of the losing party’s failure to give prompt effect to the DAB decision, which is a substantive claim distinct from the underlying dispute covered by the DAB decision.
The position, ultimately, is a simple one. An arbitration that settles the merits of a DAB decision will likely take considerable time to determine. In contrast, an arbitral ruling concerning a party’s failure to comply with that DAB decision will almost always be made within a relatively short period of time.
We note that Prof Bunni, in his article cited at [55] above, ultimately concludes that cl 20 of the 1999 Red Book does not entitle a receiving party to refer the paying party’s non-compliance with a binding but non-final DAB decision directly to arbitration without the parties having to first go through the process set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5. He appears to have reached this conclusion on the basis that since cl 20.7 only provides for the enforcement by arbitration of final and binding DAB decisions, binding but non-final DAB decisions are not similarly capable of being enforced by arbitration. He states (at pp 277–278): … [A]lthough the clear intention of sub-clause 20.4 is that the DAB’s decision should be complied with promptly, unless and until it is revised in a subsequent forum (amicable settlement or arbitration), and irrespective of whether or not one of the parties is dissatisfied with it, sub-clause 20.7 is worded in such a way that it only deals with the event where the parties are satisfied with the decision. The draftsmen did not deal with circumstances where the parties are dissatisfied with the decision, leaving that situation without any prompt solution or elucidation hence creating a gap. …
Prof Bunni states that cl 20 does not offer the receiving party any solution in cases where the paying party fails to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision, other than to treat the paying party as being in breach of contract. He acknowledges that this leads to an unsatisfactory situation which is inconsistent with the express wording of cl 20.4 (at p 273): … [A]s the remedy for such breach is damages that might be imposed at some future date, it is of little value in the immediate term and is in violation of the requirement in sub-clause 20.4 that the parties shall “promptly give effect” to the DAB’s decision …
In the article cited at [65] above, Mr Seppälä discusses the effect of the express introduction of cl 20.7. He acknowledges that cl 20.7, which expressly provides for the enforcement by arbitration of final and binding DAB decisions (ie, those in respect of which neither party has issued an NOD within the stipulated time frame), might conceivably be understood to suggest that binding but non-final DAB decisions are not similarly capable of being enforced by arbitration since they are excluded from the scope of cl 20.7. However, he argues that cl 20.7 should not be interpreted in this manner. He undertakes an analysis of the historical reason for the introduction of cl 20.7 (in the form of its predecessor, cl 67.4 of the 1987 Red Book) to support his argument.
In all the editions of the Red Book published prior to the 1999 Red Book, the role presently assigned to the DAB was discharged by the “Engineer”. Disputes had to be referred to the Engineer for decision before they could be referred to arbitration. There was a gap in the version of the Red Book that was published in 1977 (“the 1977 Red Book”), in that there was no mechanism for a receiving party to enforce an Engineer’s decision which had become final and binding save by resort to the local courts. Mr Seppälä observes in his article (at p 19): … [I]n the case of an international construction project, the Contractor would almost certainly not want to go into a local court, which would typically be in a developing country, because the local court often could not, or would not, grant the desired relief. As a result, no satisfactory remedy was available in the [1977 Red Book] where, in the case of such a project, a party, typically the Employer, had failed to comply with a final and binding decision of the Engineer under Clause 67.
While we do not accept Mr Seppälä’s broad and general characterisation of the state of justice generally available in “local” courts and courts in “developing” countries, the passage nonetheless provides a candid explanation for FIDIC’s decision to act.
Clause 67.4 was first introduced in the 1987 Red Book to ensure that a receiving party could refer a paying party’s failure to comply with a final and binding Engineer’s decision to arbitration. Mr Seppälä argues that cl 67.4 and its successor, cl 20.7 of the 1999 Red Book, should not be interpreted to mean that binding but non-final Engineer’s/DAB decisions are not similarly capable of being enforced by arbitration. He states in the article cited at [65] above (at p 20): … Nothing was intended to be implied about merely a ‘binding’ decision as it was obvious – or so it was thought at that time – that such a decision, together with the dispute underlying it, could be referred to arbitration. … It was unnecessary to deal with binding decisions, as it was clear – or so it was thought – that, as these had been the subject of a notice of dissatisfaction, these could, by definition, be referred to arbitration under Sub-Clause 20.6 (and its predecessor, Sub-Clause 67.3).
Before leaving this issue, we make some observations on the views expressed by this court in Persero CA at [67]–[68] because our decision here – namely, that a paying party’s failure to comply with a binding but non-final DAB decision is itself capable of being directly referred to a separate arbitration under cl 20.6 – differs from those views. In Persero CA, the court adopted the view that cl 20 contemplated a single arbitration that would deal with all the differences between the parties: 67 … Where [an] NOD has been validly filed against a DAB decision by one or both of the parties, and either or both of the parties fail to comply with that decision (which, by virtue of the NOD(s) filed, will be binding but non-final), sub-cl 20.6 of the 1999 [Red Book] requires the parties to finally settle their differences in the same arbitration, both in respect of the non-compliance with the DAB decision and in respect of the merits of that decision. In other words, sub-cl 20.6 contemplates a single arbitration where all the existing differences between the parties arising from the DAB decision concerned will be resolved. … 68 This observation is consistent with the plain phraseology of sub-cl 20.6, which requires the parties’ dispute in respect of any binding DAB decision which has yet to become final to be “finally settled by international arbitration”. Sub-clause 20.6 clearly does not provide for separate proceedings to be brought by the parties before different arbitral panels even if each party is dissatisfied with the same DAB decision for different reasons. [emphasis in original in bold italics; emphasis added in italics]
In the present case, the parties had, by way of the wide Terms of Reference adopted for the 2009 Arbitration, conferred upon the 2009 Tribunal broad authority to not only deal with the issue of whether PGN had to make immediate payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, but also consider the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute in the same arbitration. As noted by this court at [43] of Persero CA, under the Terms of Reference for the 2009 Arbitration, the parties had consented to confer on the 2009 Tribunal: … an unfettered discretion to reopen and review each and every finding by the [DAB]. In other words, the Arbitral Tribunal was appointed to decide not only whether CRW was entitled to immediate payment of the sum of US$17,298,834.57 … but also “any additional issues of fact or law which the Arbitral Tribunal, in its own discretion, [might] deem necessary to decide for the purpose of rendering its arbitral award”. …
Notwithstanding the broad Terms of Reference for the 2009 Arbitration, the 2009 Majority Arbitrators concluded that they were not required to open up, review and revise DAB No 3. This was because: (a) CRW had limited its claim in the 2009 Arbitration to, essentially, a declaration that PGN had an immediate obligation to pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum and an order for “prompt payment” of that sum (see [8] above); and (b) PGN had not filed a counterclaim, but rather, had couched its request for the merits of DAB No 3 to be “open[ed] up, review[ed] and revise[d]” in the form of a defence to CRW’s claim for immediate payment (see [9] above), which defence was untenable. For these reasons, the 2009 Majority Arbitrators proceeded on the basis that the 2009 Arbitration was “limited to giving prompt effect to [DAB No 3]” [emphasis added] (see [6] of the Final Award). This is evident from the concluding paragraphs of the Final Award, where the 2009 Majority Arbitrators stated: 48. [PGN] has not served any counterclaim. … 51. It follows that [PGN’s] Answer and [PGN’s] request for an award to open up, review and revise [DAB No 3] is but a defence to the claim for immediate payment of US$17,298,834.57. For all the reasons set out above, this defence must also fail and the Arbitral Tribunal [ie, the 2009 Majority Arbitrators, in the context of this quotation] FINDS accordingly. This does not in any way affect [PGN’s] right to commence an arbitration to seek to revise [DAB No 3]. The Arbitral Tribunal notes that [CRW has] expressly agreed that [PGN] may do so. … 53. In the light of the Arbitral Tribunal’s findings …, there is nothing further to be dealt with in this arbitration and [CRW is] entitled to a final award on [its] claims. [emphasis added]
Unlike the 2009 Majority Arbitrators, the court in Persero CA took the view that it made no difference that PGN challenged the merits of DAB No 3 by way of a defence only. It considered this to be a matter of form rather than substance, and said (at [67] and [88]): 67 … The respondent to the proceedings may raise the issues which it wishes the arbitral tribunal to consider either in its defence and or in the form of a counterclaim. There is no particular doctrine or rule that the respondent can only dispute a binding but non-final DAB decision by way of a counterclaim. … … 88 Counsel for CRW therefore accepted [before the 2009 Tribunal] that if PGN had sufficiently particularised its defence for the Arbitration, the Arbitral Tribunal could proceed to examine the merits of PGN’s dissatisfaction with [DAB No 3]. However, despite this concession by CRW, the [2009 Majority Arbitrators] – curiously – declined to open up, review and revise [DAB No 3] on the sole basis that PGN had not filed a counterclaim … As stated above at [67], it was not necessary for PGN to file a counterclaim before it could challenge [DAB No 3] on the merits. In addition, PGN’s memorial dated 10 July 2009, in our view, did include sufficient details of the alleged errors committed by the [DAB] (see [71] above). The Arbitral Tribunal could quite easily have examined the underlying documents placed before it to consider PGN’s allegations as well as undertake a rehearing of the parties’ dispute in accordance with sub-cl 20.6 of the [Conditions of Contract] after making an interim order for payment in favour of CRW. [emphasis in original in bold italics; emphasis added in italics]
With respect, we disagree with the views expressed at [67] and [88] of Persero CA. As noted earlier at [85] above, in the 2009 Arbitration, the 2009 Tribunal had effectively only been asked to consider whether a dispute over the merits of DAB No 3 could be a defence to CRW’s claim for immediate payment of the Adjudicated Sum. The 2009 Majority Arbitrators held – in our judgment, correctly – that such a dispute could not be a defence. In our judgment, cl 20.4[4] of the Conditions of Contract, on its terms, makes it clear that a dispute over the merits of a DAB decision is not a defence to a receiving party’s claim for prompt payment of the sum awarded to it by the DAB. If PGN wished to challenge DAB No 3, it was incumbent on PGN to pursue that by filing a counterclaim or lodging a fresh request for arbitration. It was simply no defence to CRW’s claim (pursuant to cl 20.4) for immediate payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 to say that an NOD had been issued in respect of that decision. We thus do not think that the 2009 Majority Arbitrators were wrong to proceed on the basis that the 2009 Arbitration was “limited to giving prompt effect to [DAB No 3]” (at [6] of the Final Award) and to turn down, on that basis, PGN’s request that the 2009 Tribunal “open up, review and revise” DAB No 3 on its merits.
To sum up our analysis at [83]–[87] above, cl 20.4 imposes a distinct contractual obligation on a paying party to comply promptly with a DAB decision regardless of whether the decision is final and binding or merely binding but non-final, and this obligation is capable of being directly enforced by arbitration without the parties having to first go through the preliminary steps set out in cll 20.4 and 20.5. Further, we consider that a tribunal would be entitled to make a final determination on the issue of prompt compliance alone if that is all it has been asked to rule on, as was the case in the 2009 Arbitration. On the other hand, where both the dispute over the paying party’s non-compliance with a binding but non-final DAB decision as well as the dispute over the merits of that DAB decision are put before the same tribunal, as was done in the 2011 Arbitration and, hence, in the case before us now, the tribunal can: (a) make an interim or partial award which finally disposes of the first issue (ie, whether the paying party has to promptly comply with the DAB decision); (b) then proceed to consider the second issue (ie, the merits of the DAB decision), which is a separate and conceptually distinct matter as we have already noted; and (c) subsequently, make a final determination of the underlying dispute between the parties. This is consistent with the view expressed by Gerlando Butera in his article “Untangling the Enforcement of DAB Decisions” [2014] ICLR 36. He argues (at p 59) that where the paying party lodges a counterclaim in an arbitration commenced by the receiving party to enforce a binding but non-final DAB decision: … [T]he merits of the [DAB decision] would ultimately have to be considered within the same arbitration, but (it is submitted) there is no reason in principle why in that case the tribunal should not first deal with and make a final (partial) award in respect of [the paying party’s failure to promptly comply with the DAB decision] without at the same time reviewing the merits of the first decision. On the contrary, it is submitted that that is precisely what the tribunal should in that case do, having regard to the parties’ agreement in clause 20.4 of the FIDIC Conditions that they “shall promptly give effect to” the decision. … [emphasis in italics in original; emphasis added in bold italics]
In our judgment, this in fact is what the 2011 Majority Arbitrators did in this case. They fully intended the Interim Award to be finally dispositive of the “prompt compliance” issue mentioned in the extract quoted at [88] above, ie, PGN’s obligation to comply promptly with DAB No 3. They did not (and, for that matter, could not lawfully) intend their conclusion on that issue to thereafter be varied. We turn now to explain why we disagree with PGN’s submissions to the contrary.
PGN relies on a number of documents to argue that CRW and the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended the Interim Award to be “subject to future variation”. We have set out the significant references above at [27]–[31]. We do not agree with PGN’s interpretation of those documents for the reasons set out below.
Beginning with CRW’s Statement of Claim and the Terms of Reference for the 2011 Arbitration, we accept that CRW characterised its claim as one for an interim or partial award “pending the resolution of [the] parties’ dispute” [emphasis added] (see [27] above). However, this does not signify that CRW intended the Interim Award to be subject to variation by subsequent awards made in the 2011 Arbitration. Rather, we regard this merely as an acknowledgement by CRW that the 2011 Tribunal would have to carry on to consider the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3 notwithstanding that it might have rendered a decision granting CRW the immediate relief that the latter sought in the form of an arbitral award ordering PGN to promptly comply with DAB No 3. CRW undoubtedly wanted the 2011 Tribunal to determine its application for such relief first (indeed, immediately), before proceeding to finally resolve the Underlying Dispute. This much becomes evident when para 30(a) of CRW’s Statement of Claim, which PGN referred us to, is read in its proper context. We set out below the relevant parts of CRW’s Statement of Claim: E. TRIBUNAL HAS POWER TO REVIEW AND REVISE [DAB NO 3] 27. [CRW] accepts that [PGN], having given Notice of Dissatisfaction of [DAB No 3], is entitled pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.6 of [the Conditions of Contract] to ask the Tribunal to open up, review and revise [DAB No 3]. … 28. [CRW] however avers that the party challenging [DAB No 3] has the burden of demonstrating to the Tribunal why it was wrong. 29. [CRW] further avers that pending the revision (if any) of [DAB No 3] in the Final Award, [PGN] is obliged to comply with [DAB No 3]. [PGN’s] failure to do so is a breach of Sub-Clause 20.4. F. RELIEFS SOUGHT BY [CRW] 30. By reason of the aforesaid matters, [CRW] is seeking: (a) pending the resolution of [the] parties’ dispute in the final award, a partial or interim award, for: (i) the sum of US$17,298,834.57 and interest on that sum from 3 December 2008 (i.e the date of [CRW’s] invoice) until payment of the said sum … …
It is clear from this that CRW acknowledged that the 2011 Tribunal had the power to rule on the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3. Indeed, having regard to cl 20.6, the contrary was unarguable. However, CRW also sought an interim or partial award to immediately enforce PGN’s contractual obligation to promptly pay CRW the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 pending the 2011 Tribunal’s determination of the Underlying Dispute.
We turn next to [37] of the Interim Award, which records CRW’s position in the 2011 Arbitration that it would rely on DAB No 3 both at the stage of seeking an interim award, as well as (and even if it were fail in its application for an interim award) at the stage of seeking a final award on the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of that DAB decision (see [28] above). PGN argues that the fact that CRW was prepared to rely on DAB No 3 even at the latter stage of seeking a final award demonstrates that CRW never intended the interim award which it sought to finally resolve the Underlying Dispute. We do not think PGN’s argument on this point is sustainable.
It would be helpful to set out again [37] of the Interim Award, where the 2011 Majority Arbitrators summarised CRW’s position in the 2011 Arbitration as follows: 37. … The Tribunal further acknowledges that [CRW] had at the Preliminary Hearing on 2 March 2012, confirmed its position (which has been recorded in the scope of the Terms of Reference) that: (i) [CRW] would be relying on [DAB No 3] as the basis for its application for an Interim Award; and (ii) … in the event that it was unsuccessful at the Interim Award stage, it would continue to rely upon [DAB No 3] in seeking any Final Award, and would not seek to open up and revise [DAB No 3].
In our judgment, all that [37] of the Interim Award indicates is that CRW had conveyed to the 2011 Tribunal that even if it were not granted the interim award which it sought, in seeking a final award on the parties’ Underlying Dispute, it would continue to rely on the Adjudicated Sum set out in DAB No 3 as the correct quantum of the payment due to it in respect of the 13 disputed VOPs. This particular paragraph of the Interim Award does not, in our view, suggest in any way that CRW envisaged the interim award which it sought to be “subject to future variation” by the 2011 Tribunal’s final award on the parties’ Underlying Dispute.
PGN also made reference to certain statements by the 2011 Majority Arbitrators in the Interim Award which could be seen as appearing to suggest that that award could be “altered” by the 2011 Tribunal’s final award on the parties’ Underlying Dispute (see [29] above). However, this again is not warranted if the pertinent statements are read in their proper context. We set out the relevant parts of the Interim Award below: Whether [CRW] is entitled to enforce [DAB No 3] by way of an interim/partial award? 49. In relation to the last issue, [PGN] relies on [s 19B] to contend that Singapore legislation does not allow for the kind of Interim Award or Partial Award as contemplated by [CRW]. [PGN]’s contention is that, since [DAB No 3] can be opened up at the arbitration hearing, it is not “final” in the sense contemplated in [s 19B] and an interim award cannot be issued. … … 51. The Tribunal [ie, the 2011 Majority Arbitrators] considers that even though [DAB No 3] can be opened up at the arbitration hearing, an award giving effect to it will still be final up to a certain point in time, i.e. pending the resolution of the dispute in the arbitration. Put another way, the decision is final as to the issue before the Tribunal, namely, whether payment has to be made prior to the determination of the matters raised in the NOD. … 52. In other words, an interim award giving effect to [DAB No 3] pending the resolution of the parties’ dispute is still final in the sense that it will not and cannot be altered until the arbitration hearing. ... 53. It is also implicit in [Persero CA] (the [Court of Appeal] must be presumed to have had the provisions of the IAA in mind and yet raised no difficulty with them), that an interim or partial award to enforce [DAB No 3], pending the resolution of the parties’ dispute in the arbitration, would not fall foul of [s 19B]. [underlining in original; emphasis added in bold italics]
When [51] and [52] of the Interim Award are read together, it becomes evident, in our judgment, that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators were putting across what they regarded to be the same point in three different ways. The general point they were making was that the Interim Award would bear the requisite measure of finality required by s 19B. They explained that this was because: (a) the Interim Award would finally resolve the position between the parties for a certain period of time (ie, the Interim Award would have temporal finality); (b) the Interim Award would finally resolve the issue of whether PGN had to promptly comply with DAB No 3 even though it had issued an NOD in respect of that decision (ie, the Interim Award would have subject matter finality); and (c) the Interim Award would be final until and unless it was altered by subsequent awards made in the 2011 Arbitration on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute. It is the last of these that might appear problematic. However, as mentioned at the outset of this paragraph, it is evident, in our judgment, that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators regarded all three of their aforesaid explanations to be variations of one another, and therefore, the way in which they put across the point at [52] of the Interim Award should not be read in isolation. Rather, this must be read in the light of the general point that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators were making.
Furthermore, [53] of the Interim Award puts paid to any suggestion that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended the Interim Award to be varied. It is clear that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators were alive to PGN’s argument that an interim or partial award would breach s 19B if the decision that the 2011 Tribunal subsequently issued on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute had the effect of varying such an award. The 2011 Majority Arbitrators expressly rejected this submission at [53] of the Interim Award.
In our judgment, the real point which the 2011 Majority Arbitrators were making was this: until an award on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute had been rendered, not only would the Interim Award be the final determination as to PGN’s immediate obligation to make prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3, there would also be nothing to be set off against that sum. But, once the award on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute had been issued, inevitably, an account would have to be taken of the amounts actually due one way or the other, as well as of any payments that might already have been made. It is true that the language in which the 2011 Majority Arbitrators expressed themselves could have been more precise. The language which they used might, on one reading, suggest that they thought the Interim Award could be varied. As a matter of law, of course, it could not (see below at [105]). Be that as it may, what we consider they were speaking about was the fact that the accounts between the parties would have to be adjusted as a consequence of the 2011 Tribunal’s eventual award on the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute. In short, it was not the Interim Award that would be changed or revised, but the inevitable monetary consequences and effects of that award once the final award on the merits of the Underlying Dispute had been made.
On this point, we return here to our brief discussion on the proper understanding and definition of the various types of awards mentioned at [45]–[53] above. Much of the confusion in this case seems to us to have stemmed from a failure to differentiate between, on the one hand, interim or partial awards, which entail a final determination of the parties’ substantive rights or a final determination of preliminary issues relevant to the resolution of the parties’ claims and, on the other hand, provisional awards, which neither entail nor aid in a final determination of the parties’ substantive rights. On no basis was the Interim Award a provisional award. On the contrary, it was a final determination of whether PGN had an immediate and enforceable contractual obligation to comply with DAB No 3 even though it had issued an NOD in respect of that decision. This point was answered in the affirmative by the 2011 Majority Arbitrators in the Interim Award, and that answer is not susceptible to change regardless of whatever award the 2011 Tribunal might eventually make on the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3. The only thing that is provisional in this context is the set of financial effects and consequences of the Interim Award, and that is so because the Conditions of Contract provide that in certain circumstances, a DAB decision may be revised by an arbitral award that settles the underlying merits of that decision. If and when an award on the merits of DAB No 3 is eventually made, that award would not alter the Interim Award or render it any less final, even though it might alter the financial effects and consequences that flow from the Interim Award.
The final thread of PGN’s argument that CRW and the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended the Interim Award to be “subject to future variation” concerns the Partial Award, which seemingly purports to revise the Interim Award by dismissing two of the nine Heads of Claim which the DAB had formulated when considering CRW’s claim against PGN in relation to the 13 disputed VOPs. It bears repeating the 2011 Tribunal’s conclusion at [100.6(c)] of the Partial Award: This Partial Award revises the previous majority Interim Award insofar as Heads of Claim Nos. 6 and 8 are dismissed. [emphasis added]
It is not clear why the 2011 Tribunal formulated its conclusion in those terms. There are a number of difficulties with the terms which it used. First, the use of the word “revises” is odd because the 2011 Majority Arbitrators had, as demonstrated earlier, adopted the view that the Interim Award: (a) only settled the issue of whether payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded to CRW under DAB No 3 ought to be made forthwith by PGN even though the arbitration of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of that DAB decision was still ongoing; and (b) did not preclude a later decision on the merits of that underlying dispute. The 2011 Tribunal therefore did not have to “revise” the Interim Award when it found that two of the Heads of Claim were not made out.
Second, the reference to “Heads of Claim” also makes no sense when considered in the context of the Interim Award. The Interim Award makes no mention of any individual Head of Claim; neither does it make any conclusion as to the merits of any Head of Claim. Consequently, the Interim Award is not capable of being understood as though it could be revised in the manner contemplated at [100.6(c)] of the Partial Award.
Given these difficulties, we agree with CRW’s submission that this part of the Partial Award should not be used as the basis for concluding that the 2011 Majority Arbitrators intended the Interim Award to be one that could subsequently be varied. The Partial Award concerns the correctness of DAB No 3, which, as we have repeatedly emphasised, is a wholly distinct issue from that finally disposed of in the Interim Award (ie, whether PGN had an obligation to comply promptly with DAB No 3 even though it had issued an NOD in respect of that decision). In issuing the Partial Award, the 2011 Tribunal has taken a step in reviewing the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the correctness of DAB No 3. That process is by no means complete. CRW has maintained that it will seek an order in the 2011 Tribunal’s final award on the merits of the Underlying Dispute that it is entitled to an aggregate amount exceeding the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3. Whether it can or cannot do so, and whether it will or will not succeed are not before us. For these reasons, [100.6(c)] of the Partial Award does not, in our judgment, help PGN’s case.
In any event, even if the 2011 Majority Arbitrators contemplated that the Interim Award might subsequently be varied by future awards made in the 2011 Arbitration, this would not avail PGN, and in particular, s 19B would not operate to render the Interim Award unenforceable. Rather, that section plainly renders the Interim Award final and binding as regards the particular issue which that award determined. The object of s 19B, which was introduced into the predecessor of the IAA (ie, the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 1995 Rev Ed)) only in 2001, was set out by this court at [133]–[142] of PT First Media TBK (formerly known as PT Broadband Multimedia TBK) v Astro Nusantara International BV and others and another appeal [2014] 1 SLR 372. There, we noted that s 19B, in particular s 19B(1), was enacted to clarify the position that all awards, regardless of the stage of the arbitration at which they were made, would have the effect of being final and binding. This reflected the accepted position that the issues decided under all arbitral awards were res judicata. Such decisions would not be amenable to revision by the arbitral tribunal. Section 19B does not have the effect of rendering the tribunal functus officio once it has made an interim, interlocutory or partial award in the sense of precluding it from deciding any further matter in the arbitration which is not covered by the award(s) already made. This is made clear in s 19A, which provides that a tribunal may “make more than one award at different points in time during the arbitral proceedings on different aspects of the matters to be determined”. What is proscribed by s 19B is a provisional award in the sense described at [49]–[50] above. In our judgment, the Interim Award was not a provisional award in respect of the issue which it dealt with; and if and to the extent the Partial Award purports to vary or revise the Interim Award as opposed to merely reflect the altered monetary consequences and effects that follow upon the issuance of the Partial Award, then it is the Partial Award that would offend s 19B. For the avoidance of doubt, we are merely setting out the logical conclusion of PGN’s argument that the Partial Award has varied the Interim Award; not that we think this to be true of the Partial Award for the reasons we have already stated above.
We reiterate yet again that PGN’s right to have the underlying merits of DAB No 3 reviewed at the 2011 Arbitration is in no way prejudiced by the fact that s 19B renders the issue determined under the Interim Award res judicata. This is because the Interim Award only deals with the issue of whether PGN had an obligation to promptly comply with DAB No 3 even though it had issued an NOD in respect of that decision, and says nothing about the underlying merits of DAB No 3.
For these reasons, PGN’s first argument before this court, in our judgment, is without merit and we accordingly reject it.
We also reject PGN’s second argument on appeal. According to PGN, pursuant to cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract, DAB No 3 would cease to be binding as soon as the 2011 Tribunal issues any award on any aspect of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of that DAB decision. It contends that once that happens, it will be absolved of its obligation to comply with the tribunal’s interim or partial or any other award ordering it to comply promptly with DAB No 3. However, PGN does not explain why this should be so. The fact that DAB No 3, on which the Interim Award is predicated, ceases to be binding once any award on its merits is made does not automatically render the Interim Award unenforceable or liable to be set aside. PGN bears the burden of demonstrating why this outcome should follow, but it has not discharged that burden.
Additionally, in our judgment, it would not be commercially sensible to read cl 20.4 as entailing that DAB No 3 will cease to be binding as soon as the 2011 Tribunal makes any determination on any aspect of the merits of the parties’ Underlying Dispute. The key point is this: the Interim Award is a final decision requiring PGN to make prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded to CRW under DAB No 3 pending the resolution of the Underlying Dispute. That award may be enforced against PGN on its terms, save only if there are grounds to set it aside or to resist enforcement under the applicable legal framework. The Interim Award, at pain of repeating the point, concerns PGN’s obligation under cl 20.4 to make prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum to CRW even though PGN has issued an NOD in respect of DAB No 3 and the arbitration of the merits of that DAB decision is still ongoing. That obligation remains valid and binding regardless of any subsequent award on the merits of the Underlying Dispute. If the Interim Award had never been made and the parties had proceeded (in the absence of an amicable settlement) straight to an arbitration of the Underlying Dispute, and if, in that arbitration, DAB No 3 had been set aside, there would no longer be any basis for CRW to seek an award or order for the enforcement of that DAB decision. But, where, as here, the Interim Award requiring prompt payment of the Adjudicated Sum awarded under DAB No 3 has already been made, that award remains enforceable. When the merits of the Underlying Dispute (and, as a corollary, the state of the final accounts between the parties) have been resolved, if there is, as a result, no longer a net sum payable to CRW (the receiving party under the Interim Award), then in those circumstances, there may be nothing left for CRW to enforce. But, that simply is not the position at the present point in time.
In our judgment, this is the commercially sensible way of reading cl 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract and the related provisions. In the present case, there has not been a final determination of the parties’ Underlying Dispute over the merits of DAB No 3, and nothing has transpired to invalidate or affect the Interim Award or CRW’s long overdue right to receive payment thereunder.
In the premises, we allow SUM 5277, but dismiss SUM 5985. We also dismiss both CA 148 and CA 149 with costs to be taxed if not agreed, and make the usual consequential orders. It is now a matter for CRW to decide what it will do with the Interim Award, which this court has found (by a majority) to be a valid award made in accordance with Singapore law and one that is not liable to be set aside.