Disputes over professional fees regularly come before the courts for adjudication, both as regards liability and quantum. Challenges to lawyers’ fees are not uncommon and have generated a substantial body of case-law. Recently, a dispute over a surgeon’s fees hit the news when, in an ironic twist, the husband of the surgeon found liable by the Singapore Medical Council (“SMC”) for overcharging lodged a complaint that the SMC’s lawyers, in seeking excessive party-and-party costs, were themselves guilty of overcharging. Disputes over the fees of insolvency practitioners are not free of controversy either. In one extreme case, it was alleged that the Court of Appeal’s order that the fees sought by an insolvency practitioner be renegotiated constituted a breach of natural justice (though I should add that the application to set aside the decision of the Court of Appeal has since been dismissed).
As the fees of the insolvency practitioner usually require the court’s sanction, applications are brought on a regular basis. However, there is usually no consensus as to what the proper level of fees should be. Insolvency practitioners, having put in the hours, see no reason why they should not be allowed to bill according to the hourly market rate which they would charge their private clients. Creditors invariably oppose the quantum of fees as it has a direct financial bearing on their recovery rate. The insolvent company also has every incentive to seek a reduction of the fees in order not to worsen its already dire financial position.
In this case, the fourth defendant, Airtrust (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“Airtrust”) was placed into voluntary receivership so that it might be granted a reprieve from the numerous legal disputes that beset it. Ironically, it now finds itself mired in satellite litigation over the subject of its receivers and mangers’ (“R&M”) fees. To date, the R&M of Airtrust have filed four separate applications seeking the court’s sanction for their bills of costs. In the present case, perhaps as a reflection of the difficulty of assessing the appropriate level of fees, a discount of 30% was offered. This is consistent with the general practice in such cases where, as a defensive reaction, insolvency practitioners usually offer a discount when seeking the court’s approval of their fees. No explanation was offered as to why a figure of 30% was chosen save that it was a “goodwill” gesture. The R&M still maintained that the level of remuneration sought was reasonable. Unsurprisingly, this did not satisfy the other parties. However, the first, second, and third defendants, as they did at the hearing on the third bill of costs, were merely content to offer qualitative critiques (eg, by pointing out that particular tasks could have been more efficiently performed) without offering a view as to what the appropriate quantum should be.
Needless to say, this is not a satisfactory state of affairs. This led Lee Kim Shin JC to remark at the hearing over the third bill of costs that the situation was akin to a “fish market”. In a similar vein, Judith Prakash J recently observed (in the context of a dispute over the fees of a liquidator) that, in the absence of legislative intervention prescribing a mathematical formula for the calculation of fees, any adjustment made by the courts can be criticised on the ground that it is arbitrary (see Liquidators of Dovechem Holdings Pte Ltd v Dovechem Holdings Pte Ltd (in compulsory liquidation) [2015] SGHC 167 (“Dovechem”) at [84]. I must confess at the outset that — for the reasons which are set out below — I likewise applied an additional discount which may be viewed as being “arbitrary”. It is profoundly unsatisfactory that the conventional response is simply to slash down the quantum of remuneration sought without any clear objective reference point as to what the appropriate quantum ought to be.
Legislative intervention is clearly desirable. However that process will inevitably take time. In the meantime, this state of affairs should not be allowed to continue. When the challenges over fees are closely examined, it is apparent that the sources of disagreement typically relate to the same issues: the scope and necessity of the work, allegations of over-manning and duplicity of work, disagreement over the division of the work between the lawyers and the insolvency practitioner, the justifications proffered for the time spent, and the applicable rates. These are issues which should more sensibly be the subject of a negotiated agreement at the time of appointment, rather than the loci of discord several months on. It seems to me that an altogether more sensible approach would be to take pre-emptive measures and address the problem at source: ie, to lay down guidelines at the start rather than deal with the problem after the fact. In the general dissatisfaction over the subject of fees, it can frequently be overlooked that insolvency practitioners play a pivotal role in the rehabilitation or winding down of companies. For their contributions, they should receive fair and reasonable remuneration which is properly due without concern that the sums sought may be subject to “arbitrary” adjustments. The introduction of clear upfront guidelines would ensure that they are fairly and justly rewarded for their services.
When I articulated my concerns and broached the idea of implementing a system of “costs scheduling”, I was pleased that all the parties readily welcomed the suggestion. Given the impact of my decision on the insolvency practice, I felt it prudent to adopt two steps. First, I invited submissions from the Insolvency Practitioner’s Association of Singapore (“IPAS”) to whom I would like to record my appreciation for their useful and constructive amicus curiae brief. Second, I took the somewhat unusual step of releasing the portion of my Grounds of Decision that dealt with the costs schedule in draft for comments. I felt comfortable to do so on this occasion because my judgment on the merits had already been delivered. I was of the view that the treatment of the issues covered in my Grounds would benefit from the further input of the parties and indeed this was my experience. I will begin by explaining my decision in this case before setting out my proposal for a system of “costs scheduling” in a separate annex to these Grounds.
Airtrust was set up by the late Mr Peter Fong in 1972. The plaintiff is a shareholder of Airtrust and was its managing director. The first and second defendants, Carolyn Fong Wai Lyn (Mr Peter Fong’s eldest daughter) and Anthony Craig Stiefel, are both directors of Airtrust. The third defendant, Mr Alvin Hong, is a minority shareholder with a 2% stake in Airtrust. For ease of reference, I will refer to them collectively as “the respondents” since they were all united in opposition to the application filed by the R&M.
Following Mr Fong’s passing in 2008, a number of legal actions were commenced against members of the late Mr Fong’s family, against Airtrust, and also by Airtrust against others (see, eg, Airtrust (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Kao Chai-Chau Linda and another suit [2014] 2 SLR 673; Fong Wai Lyn Carolyn v Airtrust (Singapore) Pte Ltd and another [2011] 3 SLR 980). One of these proceedings is the present suit — Suit No 428 of 2010 — wherein the plaintiff sought to restrain the defendants from holding an Extraordinary General Meeting to remove her from her position as managing director and director of Airtrust.
On 17 January 2012, the parties to the present action reached an agreement to place Airtrust into receivership pending a negotiated settlement of the outstanding legal suits in which Airtrust was involved. This was achieved by way of a consent order dated the same day. The R&M were to “manage and carry on the business of [Airtrust] in place of its Board of Directors until further order” and their terms of reference included, but were not limited to, the management of Airtrust’s bank account and its existing employment contracts.
Since their appointment, the R&M have filed several summonses to seek approval for their bills of costs. (a) On 8 June 2012, they filed Summons No 2855 of 2012 to seek remuneration of $2.1m for three months’ work performed between 17 January 2012 and 13 April 2012 (“the First Bill”). The R&M offered a discount of 30%. When the matter came before Choo Han Teck J on 4 September 2012, he applied a further 12% reduction on top of the 30% discount offered (making for a final reduction of 42% from the original figure) and approved a sum of $1.21m. (b) On 8 February 2013, they filed Summons No 760 of 2013 in respect of the bill of costs for three months’ work performed between 14 April 2012 and 20 July 2012 (“the Second Bill”). The proposed remuneration was again $2m but no discount was offered in this instance. Lee Seiu Kin J awarded a sum of $1.24m, a reduction of 38% from the initial sum proposed. (c) On 18 September 2013, they filed Summons No 6009 of 2013 to seek a sum of $1.6m for six months’ work performed between 1 July 2012 and 31 December 2012 (“the Third Bill”). A discount of 10% was offered at the time of the hearing. Lee Kim Shin JC applied a further discount and approved a final sum of $1m (a total reduction of 38% from the initial figure proposed).
I note that the reductions were applied to the professional fees charged, and not the disbursements (which, in any case, only made up a small fraction of the total bills). This approach is correct. A claim for disbursements is a claim to be reimbursed for expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of a stipulated task. As long as they were reasonably incurred (and there was no suggestion that they were not), there should be no reason that the R&M should not be reimbursed in full.
On 12 August 2014, the R&M’s solicitors wrote to the respondents to inform them that professional fees and disbursements in the sum of $3.1m had been incurred for work done between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 (“the Applicable Period”). The R&M offered a discount of 30% on the professional fees (taking the final figure down to $2.18m) and proposed that this revised figure be presented to court for approval by agreement. The respondents replied separately, each taking issue both with the quantum of the fees and with the level of detail provided in support of the fees claimed.
Despite being unable to secure the respondents’ agreement, the R&M went ahead and filed Summons No 4976 of 2014 on 3 October 2014 seeking approval for a sum of $3.1m. Accompanying the application was an affidavit sworn by Mr Aaron Loh Cheng Lee (one of the R&M) which contained (a) the accounts of Airtrust for the applicable period and (b) a spreadsheet detailing the hours logged by the R&M for the applicable period.
Parties first attended before me on 12 January 2015. On that occasion, the third defendant and the plaintiff both argued that the supporting affidavit did not contain an adequate level of detail, leaving them “handicapped” and unable to properly assess whether the quantum of fees claimed was reasonable. The plaintiff pointed out that the supporting affidavit for the Third Bill contained a detailed breakdown of the time spent by each fee earner for each category of work claimed and requested that a similar level of detail be provided here. I agreed that this was sensible and adjourned the application to allow a supplementary affidavit to be filed.
On 2 February 2015, Mr Aaron Loh filed a supplementary affidavit containing the requested information. Following that, each of the respondents wrote to the R&M, taking issue with specific items in the timesheets and requested for further information. The additional information was duly provided by way of yet another affidavit filed by Mr Aaron Loh on 4 March 2015 wherein he provided responses to each of the queries raised.
When the parties attended before me on 9 March 2015, the respondents continued to indicate their unease with the level of fees charged and pointed to perceived inefficiencies in the R&M’s work processes and the possibility of a duplication of work. The R&M responded to each of the respondent’s arguments and contended that their offer of a 30% discount ought to be sufficient to deal with any concerns over inefficiencies in their work.
After hearing the parties, I reduced the quantum of professional fees sought by 40% (ie, a further 10% above the 30% discount offered) to $1.8m but allowed the disbursements of $30,000 as charged.
Before I give the detailed reasons for my decision, I think it is useful to set out the principles which guide the exercise of the court’s discretion in this area. This section will be divided into three parts. First, I will begin with the role and function of court-appointed receivers. Second, I will examine the principles that guide the court in its determination of a receiver’s remuneration. Third, I will explain the methodology applied by the courts in assessing what the appropriate remuneration ought to be. Before going further, I make three important clarifications.
First, I note that, historically, there was a distinction made between “receivers” on the one hand and “managers” on the other. The former were confined only to the collection and securing of the rents, income and profits whereas the latter were empowered also to buy, sell, and manage the business as a going concern (see Re Manchester and Milford Railway Company ex parte Cambrian Railway Company (1880) 14 Ch D 645 at 653). However, it appears that this distinction is not often drawn today (see Hubert Picarda, The Law Relating To Receivers, Managers and Administrators, (Tottel Publishing, 4th Ed, 2006) (“Picarda”) at pp 5 and 6). Order 1 r 4(1) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”) explicitly provides that any reference to “’receiver’ includes a manager or consignee.” For the remainder of this judgment, therefore, I will refer to both receivers and managers as “receivers” simpliciter and to the law governing their appointment, duties, and remuneration as the “law of receivership”.
Second, the law of receivership may be divided into that pertaining to privately appointed and court-appointed receivers (see Picarda at p 1). The appointment of a private receiver flows from the exercise of a creditor’s contractual powers (usually under the terms of a debenture) granted by a company. Thus, the grant of remuneration to private receivers falls to be governed by the terms of the contract which forms the basis of their appointment (see Saheran Suhendran bin Abdullah, Lim Tian Huat, and Edwin Chew, Corporate Receivership: The Law and Practice in Malaysia and Singapore (Butterworths, 1997) (“Corporate Receivership in Malaysia and Singapore”) at p 327). By contrast, curial receivership traces its origins to the practice of the Court of Chancery where a receiver was appointed in a wide variety of situations where the interim protection of property was required (see Capewell v Revenue and Customs Comrs and another [2007] 1 WLR 386 at [19] per Lord Walker). Thus, the principles governing the remuneration of court-appointed receivers still bear an equitable accent. It is the latter — the remuneration of court-appointed receivers — which will be the focus of this decision.
Third, even though the specific issue which is before this court is the remuneration of receivers, the general principles are equally applicable to the remuneration of other insolvency practitioners whose offices also have a fiduciary character (see Re Econ Corp Ltd (in provisional liquidation) [2004] 2 SLR(R) 264 (“Re Econ”) at [45]). Thus, I will draw liberally from cases dealing with the remuneration of other insolvency practitioners (eg, liquidators, judicial managers, trustees/nominees in bankruptcy) where they are relevant, bearing in mind the subtle differences that may exist as a result of differences in the relevant statutory provisions.
The appointment of receivers was the exclusive preserve of the Court of Chancery until the fusion of law and equity through the passage of the Judicature acts. Section 25(8) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873 (c 66) (UK) conferred all divisions of the High Court with the power to appoint a receiver where it appeared to the court to be “just and convenient” to do so (see Corporate Receivership in Malaysia and Singapore at pp 377 and 378).
In Singapore, the power of the High Court to appoint a receiver is statutorily conferred by s 4(10) of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed), which provides that a receiver may be appointed “by an interlocutory order of the court, either unconditionally or upon such terms and conditions as the court thinks just, in all cases in which it appears to the court to be just or convenient that such order should be made.” Section 18(2) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007) (“SCJA”), read with para 5 of the First Schedule, provides that the High Court has the “[p]ower before or after any proceedings are commenced to provide for — (a) the interim preservation of property which is the subject-matter of the proceedings by sale or by injunction or the appointment of receiver … or in any manner whatsoever” [emphasis added].
Despite the differences in wording, the purport of the legislation is clear: the central purpose of receivership is the interim preservation of disputed property pending its final resolution in the main action (see Lee Kuan Yew v Tang Liang Hong and another and other suits [1997] 1 SLR(R) 328 (“LKY v TLH”) at [7]). In discharging this role, receivers act as officers of the court. In Mirror Group Newspapers plc v Maxwell and others (No 2) [1998] 1 BCLC 638 (“Mirror Group”), Ferris J described it the following way (at 648a–c). The essential point which requires constantly to be borne in mind is that office-holders are fiduciaries charged with the duty of protecting, getting in, realising and ultimately passing on to others assets and property which belong not to themselves but to creditors or beneficiaries of one kind or another. They are appointed because of their professional skills and experience and they are expected to exercise proper commercial judgment in the carrying out of their duties. Their fundamental obligation is, however, a duty to account, both for the way in which they exercise their powers and for the property which they deal with. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
This notion of a “duty to account” has both a narrow and a wider dimension. In its narrow sense, it means that receivers must stand ready to explain, in some detail, the actions that they undertook in the discharge of their office. This principle is also embodied in statute. For example, O 30 r 4 of the ROC imposes a duty on receivers to submit accounts on a regular basis. In the wider sense, this duty to account behoves receivers to explain and, if necessary, to account for any reduction in the value of the subject matter of the appointment. This includes sums paid out to them as remuneration, which will necessarily be taken out of the assets of the company they are managing. This has two important implications.
The first is that the burden of proof falls on the receiver to justify the quantum of his fees. As explained by Ferris J in Mirror Group at 648c–f, this implication flows as a corollary of the duty to account. Office-holders are nowadays not normally expected to act gratuitously. It is salutary to remember, however, that the rule that a trustee must not profit from his trust is a rule that applies to all kinds of person who are in a fiduciary position (see Snell's Equity (28th edn, 1982) pp 249–252). The allowance of remuneration in particular cases represents an exception to this rule, but it inevitably involves a conflict between the interest of the fiduciary who is to receive such remuneration and the interests of those to whom the fiduciary duties are owed, who will bear whatever remuneration is allowed. A consequence of this is that it must be for the office-holder who seeks to be remunerated at a particular level to justify his claim. As I see it this is simply one aspect of his obligation to account. What he retains for himself out of the property which comes into his hands as office-holder is not available for those towards whom he is a fiduciary. He cannot therefore account for it by paying it over. The only other way in which he can account for it is by showing that he ought to be allowed to retain it for himself. But this is necessarily a matter for him to establish. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
To that end, the receiver must provide full particulars (supported by proper records) to justify his entitlement to be paid the sum sought. Chiefly, this involves explaining (a) what was done; (b) why it had to be done; and (c) why it had to be done in the manner as employed. The level of detail required will be proportionate to the complexity of the receivership (see Mirror Group at 648h). An excellent non-exhaustive list of matters which should be included in any remuneration application may be found at para 21.4.2 of the Practice Direction (Insolvency Proceedings) 2014 [2014] BCC 502 (“UK Insolvency PD 2014 ”). Some of the important areas of information that must be covered include: the profile and qualifications of the team, the areas of work performed and the time spent, and the receivers’ general policy vis-à-vis the capture of value (eg, steps taken to avoid duplication of work or the steps taken to ensure that work is performed by persons of an appropriate seniority).
As a practical matter, one difficulty that is often encountered is that the information (particularly where time-based costing is used, since a greater level of information is required) is often presented in a haphazard and unhelpful manner. I am glad to state, however, that this was not my experience in this summons. I found the bills of costs tendered by the R&M to be clear and very helpful and I commend the approach they took for general adoption. In gist, what they did was provide the relevant information at three different levels of detail, starting with the most general and moving to the more specific. (a) “Level 1” — The first spreadsheet was a succinct summary of the work performed by the entire team for the period of assessment presented in a single page. The names of each member of the team were found in separate rows. In respect of each team member, the following information was provided: (i) the period of engagement; (ii) the total number of billable hours spent; (iii) the charge-out rate; and (iv) the total time-cost. (b) “Level 2” — The second set of spreadsheets focused on the general categories of work done. Each category of work occupied a separate row and for each category of work, the following information was provided in separate columns: (i) a brief description of the work; and (ii) the total time spent on each category by each team member on that category of work. (c) “Level 3” — The third set of spreadsheets focused on individual tasks. Each task occupied a separate row and for each task, the following information was provided: (i) a brief description of what the task entailed; (ii) whether it was complex or urgent; (iii) detailed comments on problems faced or general remarks on the nature of the task; and (iv) the time spent by each team-member on the task.
I do not expect that every engagement will require this level of detail. The guiding principle is always one of proportionality: the level of detail should be commensurate with the complexity of the task (see [27] above). I also accept that adopting this method entails an inevitable duplication in the information presented since the information in Levels 1 and 2 are simply derivations of the information presented at Level 3. However, to my mind, that is precisely the point: it facilitates both a macroscopic as well as a microscopic examination of the bill, as the situation requires.
The second implication of the duty to account is that any element of doubt as to the propriety of remuneration should be resolved against the receivers (see Mirror Group at 649b). This is because the award of remuneration to fiduciaries is an exception to the general rule that they are not to make a profit out of their office. Thus, if the receivers do not discharge the burden of proving their case for the remuneration as claimed, they ought not to be entitled to it.
Order 30 r 3(3) of the ROC provides that “[a] person appointed receiver shall be allowed such proper remuneration, if any, as may be fixed by the Court” [emphasis added]. The trouble, however, is that the expression “proper” is the statement of a legal conclusion rather than an aid to analysis. It still begs the question: what is “proper”? In my judgment, “proper” remuneration is one which is a fair, reasonable, and proportionate reflection of the value of the services rendered.
The starting point for any inquiry into proper remuneration is the oft-cited dictum of Ferris J in Mirror Group at 652a, that “remuneration should be fixed so as to reward value, not so as to indemnify against cost” (approved of in Re Econ at [50]). The reason for this emphasis on value-based remuneration is that, as fiduciaries, receivers are entitled to receive fair recompense which reflects the value of their stewardship but no more. They do not even have an automatic right to recover all expenses incurred (not even if these expenses were incurred in good faith) unless they can show that these expenses were reasonably incurred in the discharge of their stewardship (see [11] above).
How, then, is “value” to be measured? In Re Econ at [50], V K Rajah JC (as he then was) wrote that the “value” of an insolvency practitioner’s contribution was to be measured in terms of “the difference the insolvency practitioner has made to the matter”. This “difference”, it seems to me, must be assessed in relation to the purpose of the receiver’s appointment. The central inquiry is whether the objectives of the receivership (which are contained in his terms of reference) have been attained. At its core, this means the preservation of the assets of the company (see [24] above). However, where the receivers’ terms of reference provide for broader objectives (as it does in the present), the remit of the inquiry of “value” will concomitantly be wider. Several further useful guiding propositions can be distilled from the cases.
First, the fact that the receivers have performed work that benefits the company is not a sufficient basis for remuneration if the work done is outside the remit of the receivership (see Ide v Ide and others (2004) 50 ASCR 324 (“Ide”) at [47]). Since the question of “value” is to be measured by a receiver’s success in achieving the objects of the receivership, it follows that he should not ordinarily be remunerated for performing work which is ultra vires his terms of reference, even if such work furthered the company’s interests. For example, in Venetian Nominees Pty Ltd v Conlan (1998) WASC 273 (“Venetian Nominees”), the Supreme Court of Western Australia affirmed the decision of the Master to disallow the provisional liquidator’s claim for the costs of preparing statutory returns on the financial health of the company because that task (while “valuable” in a general sense) was the duty of the directors and not the provisional liquidator.
Second, in assessing whether a particular act ought to have been performed, some margin of appreciation should also be extended. While the general principle is that the court will not permit recovery of services which have been performed without prior sanction (see Bristowe v Needham (1847) 2 Ph 190), one should not expect a receiver caught up in the flurry of activity in the marketplace to have the same luxury of calm and dispassionate analysis that is afforded to those called on to assess his acts ex post facto in the confines of the courtroom. As explained by V K Rajah JC (as he then was) in Re Econ at [58]): … In determining whether particular tasks are within the insolvency practitioner’s mandate, the courts ought to take a practical approach. In the heat of urgent decision-making, insolvency practitioners may make decisions or take steps which may, in retrospect, prove to be unnecessary or ineffective. They should not be penalised for such decisions. If an impractical standard is set, insolvency practitioners will be crushed between the upper and nether millstones. The test postulated by Ferris J in the Mirror case at 649 seems a just one: [T]he test of whether office-holders have acted properly in undertaking particular tasks at a particular cost in expenses or time spent must be whether a reasonably prudent man, faced with the same circumstances in relation to his own affairs, would lay out or hazard his own money in doing what the office-holders have done. … [emphasis in original omitted; emphasis added in italics]
For example, in Dovechem, the liquidators had spent a substantial amount of time pursuing a claim in China which eventually turned out to be time-barred. At first instance, the Assistant Registrar disallowed the claim on the basis that this suit should not have been commenced in the first place, ruling that the liquidators ought to have appreciated that it was doomed to fail from the start. On appeal, Judith Prakash J disagreed with the Assistant Registrar’s decision (at [55]–[57]). She found that the liquidators, though familiar with Chinese business regulations, could not reasonably be expected to have been au fait with Chinese laws on limitation periods. Further, she also observed that it was somewhat unfair for the majority shareholders to now oppose the liquidators’ entitlement to be remunerated for this service since they were the ones who had pressed the liquidators to commence the claim in the first place. The majority shareholders had likewise failed to spot the time-bar issue despite being in possession of the loan documents (which formed the basis of the claim) from the outset. In the circumstances, it could not be said that the work done in relation to the matter was wasted and therefore should not be remunerated.
Third, the notion of “value” cannot be construed only in monetary terms (see Dovechem at [33]). The generation of financial benefit is not the only index of value. In many cases, the contributions of a receiver will not manifest in a direct financial benefit to the company and may not easily be quantified (eg, where the objective of receivership is not the generation of profit but, as in the present, the management of the company pending the resolution of its legal disputes). However, it may still be of value and can properly be the subject of a claim for remuneration.
The expression “fair, reasonable and proportionate” should not be read disjunctively but must instead be understood holistically. In essence, it means that the remuneration awarded must be commensurate with the nature, complexity, and extent of work which had to be undertaken (see UK Insolvency PD 2014 at paras 21.2.3(5) and (6)). Underlying this principle, I think, is a simple point: receivers, like all insolvency practitioners, function in an environment of scarcity. The reality is that all choices involve trade-offs and, sometimes, the cost of rendering a particular service is just too high (when compared to the benefits which accrue) such that a receiver cannot justifiably be allowed to claim for the cost of rendering that service. As explained by Ferris J in Mirror Group at 649c–d, insolvency practitioners are “expected to deploy commercial judgment, not to act regardless of expense.” It is therefore wholly insufficient to state that what they have done is within their terms of reference. They must also demonstrate that the cost of paying them for their service can be justified by the benefits that have accrued for the company.
In the most general sense, this means that the total sum awarded cannot be out of proportion with the value of the company’s estate. In Mirror Group, for example, the receivers were tasked with asset recovery. They succeeded in realising a sum of £1.6m. However, they then claimed a sum of £745,000 in professional fees and a further £705,000 in legal fees and other disbursements, leaving only a scant £43,428 for the estate. Ferris J found the figures “profoundly shocking” and observed that “[i]f the amounts claimed are allowed in full this receivership will have produced substantial rewards for the receivers and their lawyers and nothing at all for creditors of the estate” (at 645c). Similarly, in Re Peregrine Investments Holdings Ltd & Ors [1998] 3 HKC 1, the provisional liquidators put up a bill of HK$76m for 63 days of work — a sum achieved, in part, because many individuals in the provisional liquidators’ teams had apparently clocked daily billable averages “well into” the double digits on a sustained basis over 30 days and more. Le Pichon J said, with no small amount of understatement, that the overall size of the bill and the sheer number of billable hours involved (which she described at [6] as the product of “apparent marathon feats”) left her “greatly troubled” (at [14]). It goes without saying that bills of this sort must almost certainly be impugned on the basis that they are neither fair nor reasonable nor proportionate when assessed against the benefits obtained.
In assessing whether the sum claimed is a fair, reasonable and proportionate one, I think a good starting point would be the list of factors found at r 69.7 of the English Civil Procedure Rules 1998 (SI 1998 No 3132) (UK), which English courts are required to take into account when determining an appropriate quantum of remuneration: (a) the time properly given by him and his staff to the receivership; (b) the complexity of the receivership; (c) any responsibility of an exceptional kind or degree which falls on the receiver in consequence of the receivership; (d) the effectiveness with which the receiver appears to be carrying out, or to have carried out, his duties; and (e) the value and nature of the subject matter of the receivership.
The role of the reviewing court is not to scrutinise the minutiae of the bill, but to consider matters of principle (see Ide at [39]). This is a concession both to resource constraints as well as limited institutional competence of the courts in this area. As observed by Hoffmann J in In re Potters Oils Ltd [1986] 1 WLR 201 at 207, “the court is ill-equipped to conduct a detailed investigation of receivers’ charges on an itemised basis. A judge could not do so without being expensively educated by expert evidence”. In other words, the function of the court is to examine the bill to determine if there are material flaws in the methodology of its preparation or any incorrect premises which have been adopted which can properly justify an adjustment of the figures presented.
It is well established that in performing its task, the court’s inquiry is not limited only to matters over which queries have been raised. As explained by the Supreme Court of Western Australia in Venetian Nominees at 14, the absence of dissentients does not absolve the court of the duty of scrutinising the bills closely. At the end of the day, it is the function of the court to arrive at a determination of what the proper quantum of remuneration ought to be after “considering the material proffered and bringing an independent mind to bear on the relevant issues.”
In Re Stockford Ltd (subject to deed of company arrangement); Korda and Another (as joint and several deed administrators) (2004) ACSR 279 (“Re Korda”), Finkelstein J adopted a two stage approach towards the determination of the appropriate quantum to be awarded (at [47]): (a) At the first stage, the court has to arrive at a working figure (which he, following the terminology applied in the United States, calls a “lodestar” amount). This figure is usually calculated on a time cost basis (ie, the “number of hours reasonably spent by the insolvency practitioner multiplied by a reasonable hourly rate”). In arriving at this figure, the court is not limited to accepting the figures provided by the applicants at face value. Instead, it has to make necessary adjustments to account for its assessment of whether the hourly rates levied are reasonable, having regard to such information it may have on the standard rates levied by the industry or with reference to previous rates levied by the same professionals. The court should determine whether the hours claimed for were reasonably spent and subtract claims for billable hours which have not been adequately supported by evidence. (b) At the second stage, the court should adjust this provisional figure. To the extent that any quantifiable adjustments can be made (eg, where specific quantified heads of claim are disallowed), these should first be factored in before a further percentage reduction is applied (once again, applying the usual “broad brush”: see Dovechem at [81] and [84])) to reflect the court’s assessment of what a fair and reasonable sum ought to be.
It seems to me that the two-stage approach articulated by Finkelstein J has much to commend it and I respectfully agree that this is an appropriate approach to be employed in the circumstances. I must stress, however, that the broad brush approach is not a charter for unfettered discretion. Instead, the court must exercise its discretion judicially, with reference to the principles articulated in the preceding paragraphs, taking into account all relevant information that have been presented by the parties and requesting for further particulars if need be (see Re Roslea Path Ltd (in liquidation) [2013] 1 NZLR 207 (“Re Roslea Path”) at [141] and [142]). In Conlan as liquidator of ROWENA NOMINEES PTY LTD (rec and mngr apt) (in liq) (CAN 008 818 273) v Adams and Others (2008) ACSR 521 (“Conlan”) at [92], McLure JA criticised the approach taken by the taxing Master in the court below on the basis that he had adopted an uncritical and impressionistic use of the “broad brush” approach. In that case, the Master had held that the costs associated with four heads of claim ought to be disallowed but then went on to opine that it would be impossible to sieve out the costs associated with that action with those for the insolvency in general. Thus, he taxed the bill down in toto without considering the fact that the claimed costs of the relevant litigation was clearly listed in an annexure to the application. The Court of Appeal cautioned that an omission to make out a prima facie case in relation to particular discrete parts of the claim does not support the inference of a systemic problem that justifies a reduction in other (unconnected) parts of the claim and varied the Master’s orders accordingly.
A further point I will mention is that the courts in other jurisdictions have accepted that it is appropriate, in some cases, for the courts to be assisted by assessors, particularly where the bill is very large and the issues very complex. This was done in Re Independent Insurance Co Ltd (in provisional liquidation) (No 2) [2003] 1 BCLC 640 (“Re Independent Insurance (No 2)” where the appointment of an assessor there was hailed as a “progressive step forward” that provided creditors with a “reliable independent quantification of the office holder remuneration” (see Michael Mulligan and John Tribe, “the remuneration of office holders in corporate insolvency – liquidators, administrators and administrative receivers” (2003) Insolv L 101 at pp 104 and 117).
Our courts also have the power to appoint an assessor under s 10A(1) of the SCJA and I would agree that, in an appropriate case, assessors could be appointed to assist the court by providing the court with a neutral evaluation of the propriety of the claims presented. One point I will mention, however, is that the court should always be mindful that the appointment of an assessor would necessarily entail a further layer of costs. Therefore, the benefit of appointing an assessor must always be balanced against the costs which will be incurred. The assessors’ reports should, of course, be made available to the parties for comment and critique and it also goes without saying that the ultimate decision still lies with the court (see Re Roslea Path at [160]).
Before turning to my decision in relation to the present bill, I want to spend some time examining some of the persistent problems that constantly plague this area of law. The purpose of this exercise is two-fold: first, it will explain how the general principles set out above (while easy enough to articulate) are not always easily applied in practice; second, it will demonstrate that this is an area of law which is in urgent need of reform. Given that the law reports are rife with cases featuring disagreements over the remuneration of insolvency practitioners, I will just highlight three of the most intractable points of disagreement.
The issue of time-costing is one which has received much attention in the case-law, with the chief criticism being that it is a poor measure of what an appropriate sum of remuneration should be. In order to understand the nature of the problem, it is important to understand how hourly rates are calculated. As explained in Re Independent Insurance (No 2) at 653b–d, professional firms — when calculating the appropriate hourly rate to apply — proceed in the following sequence: (a) First, the firm will calculate the level of profit it has to achieve in a particular year. This figure is calculated chiefly with reference to: (i) the level of remuneration it wishes to give to its partners and staff; (ii) the overheads and other operating expenses of the firm; and (iii) the rates levied by its competitors. (b) Second, it then decides how much each fee earner has to charge per hour (commensurate with their level of experience) in order that the firm may achieve its targeted level of profit. In deriving this figure, the firm first has to ascertain the total number of chargeable hours each fee earner is capable of billing. The total number of chargeable hours is always a fraction of the total hours that each fee earner can be expected to work (this figure, which is usually 70%, is known as the “utilisation rate”). The use of a percentage reflects the reality that not every working hour will be billable: professionals will need to spend time on non-billable work and, further, they are often involved in several briefs at the same time so inevitable inefficiencies are to be expected as they transition from one task to the next.
As is clear from the foregoing, the hourly rates charged are really a function of the insolvency practitioner’s internal profitability targets and do not reflect the value that the work generates for their clients. This is the central problem with time-based costing as diagnosed by Ferris J, which is that “time spent represents a measure not of the value of the service rendered but of the cost of rendering it” (see Mirror Group at 652a). It seems to me, however, that the problem is even worse than that. I think that time-costs only represent, at best, a putative measure of the cost of the service rendered, rather than its actual cost. Time-based costing assumes: (a) that the time spent on a particular task was necessarily and properly spent by a person of the appropriate seniority and experience; (b) that the hourly rates charged reflect the true cost of performing that activity; and (c) that the hours charged were all productively spent. However, even at the best of times, none of these assumptions are always tenable. As observed by Lawrence J in Re Carton Ltd [1923] All ER Rep 622 at 627, even the very best accountants might spend their time unproductively and on unnecessary work which adds little or no value to the company.
Of particular concern is (b) — the propriety of the hourly rates levied. It is important to remember that what is relevant is not the charge-out rate of the practitioner in question but the general rate levied by a person of the equivalent status and experience (see Jones v Secretary of State for Wales [1997] 1 WLR 1008, which makes this point, albeit in the context of solicitors’ fees). However, the court has no basis for gauging if the charge-out rates represent fair market value since there are no fee guidelines issued by local professional bodies against which the rates charged by individual practitioners may be measured. This problem is exacerbated in long engagements. As explained in Re Independent Insurance (No 2) at [18]–[22], staff members in long term engagements are more akin to persons on long-term secondments and will hence be able to achieve higher utilisation rates (because they will not suffer from the inefficiencies attendant with having to switch from working on one brief to another). Thus, the estimate of a 70% utilisation rate may be too conservative.
I note that it is common for “voluntary” discounts to be offered in long engagements, as was done in the present case (see [12] above). However, it is often the case that the mere offer of a discount without an explanation (as was done in the present case) only serves to cloud the issue rather than clarify it (see Re Econ at [18]). At the end of the day, the principle of the matter is that if the sum claimed is “proper”, there is no reason why the insolvency practitioner should not be entitled to it. Conversely, if the sum claimed was not “proper” to begin with, the offer of a deduction is not a “voluntary discount” in the true sense. The expression suggests that the offer represents a voluntary reduction from an amount which would otherwise rightfully be due. However, if the sum claimed is not “proper” in the first place, then the insolvency practitioner is not even entitled to be paid that sum and the reduction was not his to give.
However, despite its many problems (which are endemic to the system of time-based costing) the courts appear not to have any choice but to use time-based costs as a starting point for its assessment. This is because the general principles set out in the previous section only afford the court with the tools to conduct a qualitative review of the bills of costs but no tools to independently arrive at a quantum. Thus, the courts have to work with the figures provided and apply an appropriate discount on the final figure to reflect its concerns over the propriety of the hourly rates charged. However, it seems to me that the application of any such reduction is a hopelessly difficult and speculative exercise. At the end of the day, if it is acknowledged that the quantum produced by time-based costing has little to do with the actual value of the service rendered then it seems to me that the court should jettison it entirely and cease to use it as a basis for calculating how much the receivers should be paid. However, this will not be possible unless there is a better and more objective alternative.
One common complaint is that of “over-servicing”. The concept of “over-servicing” is a compendious one and is intended to capture all instances in which work, though intra vires the terms of reference of the receivers, is “unnecessary” in the sense that it ought not to have been incurred, given the size of the company and the benefits which were reaped (see Conlan at [44]). Some examples include: (a) Where the receivers pursue a costlier and more resource-intensive route of action when a cheaper alternative is readily available. In Dovechem, the liquidators had an obligation to sell the shares held in a subsidiary at “fair market value”. They received an offer from the company’s existing shareholders which accorded with their valuation but nevertheless proceeded to carry out a full open bidding exercise, which cost $322,536. On review, Prakash J held that much of the work done in preparation for the bidding exercise was unnecessary given that the liquidators had already received a reasonable offer. (b) Where work is performed by persons at an inappropriate level of seniority: eg, where a partner is assigned to perform a simple task (at significantly higher cost) when the work could just as easily have been done by an associate or even by administrative staff (see Re Cabletel Installations Ltd (in liquidation) [2005] BPIR 28). (c) It may also occur where ancillary charges have unnecessarily been incurred: eg, legal or secretarial assistance. In Re Independent Insurance (No 2), the provisional liquidators levied an additional charge of £130,470 for 10 months’ worth of secretarial services. The liquidators stated that it was their “policy” to charge secretarial time for assignments where large blocks of time are spent on a particular task. Ferris J rejected this argument, explaining (at [30]) that the need for secretarial services is an “ordinary incident of professional life” so any charges incurred thereof should be treated as an overhead cost which is covered by the sum paid to the insolvency practitioner. A separate charge for such services would only be appropriate “for the performance of exceptional duties” for which evidence had to be adduced (at [32]).
The problem with allegations of over-servicing is that they often call for an exercise of commercial judgment in respect of which no clear answers may be had. For example, in Re Independent Insurance (No 2), the provisional liquidators dealing with a “mega insolvency” of an insurance company spent an astonishing 14,500 hours on compiling a comprehensive inventory of the company’s documentation at a cost of nearly £1.3m. A criticism was levied that this was unnecessary work. However, the liquidators argued that the unique exigencies of the case — the fact that this was a major insurance business and the fact that external agencies like the Financial Services Authority and Serious Fraud Office were investigating the matter — necessitated the extraordinary step. The court, while commenting that the process could have been more cheaply performed, nevertheless held that the liquidators had made the decision in the exercise of their commercial judgment and that there was no basis upon which to gainsay their decision.
It is my view that many disagreements of this nature could be averted if there were clear guidelines or court directions, from the outset, on the scope of the receivers’ involvement in these areas. Matters such as the composition of the persons on the team and the nature of independent professional help that the receivers may engage can more sensibly and profitably be the product of a negotiated agreement at the time of appointment rather than subjects of disagreement ex post facto.
Another common complaint concerns the duplication of work. This problem is particularly acute in situations in which there are multiple sets of professionals (usually lawyers and insolvency practitioners) engaged in the same matter. This problem typically manifests in two different scenarios.
The first is where the costs of the other professionals are being claimed as part of the insolvency practitioner’s disbursements. This was the case, for example, in Mirror Group where the receivers had engaged lawyers and later included the legal fees that they had been charged in their bills of costs (as a claim for disbursements). In such a situation, the onus lies first on the receivers, as the paying party, to decide whether they want to accept the bill put forward by the lawyers before they come to court to make a claim (see Mirror Group at 662d–g). After all, the insolvency practitioners are hired for their commercial judgment, part of which encompasses the independent evaluation of the propriety of bills put up by service providers they hire. This acts as a preliminary filter. It is only after the insolvency practitioners have finalised their position on the bill that the court will consider whether the expenditure was reasonably incurred and therefore should be allowed.
I pause to observe that this preliminary filter is often of limited utility because of the incentives at play. It must be remembered that insolvency practitioners and lawyers often develop a durable working relationship over time. In one case, it might be the insolvency practitioner who owes his appointment to the lawyer; in another case, it might be the lawyer who proposes a particular insolvency practitioner for appointment. In a situation where neither has to bear the costs of the other directly (since the remuneration will come out of the company’s funds), there is little incentive for either to dispute the sums claimed in the other’s bills of costs.
The second scenario is where the costs of the other professionals are not claimed as disbursements incurred by the insolvency practitioner per se, but have been separately billed to the company. In such a situation, the court can and should still take cognisance of the possibility that the work performed by the insolvency practitioner in relation to matters within the other professional’s (usually a lawyer) scope of responsibility is unnecessary and his contribution redundant. The onus lies on the insolvency practitioner to justify his involvement when there are other professionals instructed on the same matter. In Dovechem, for example, the court permitted the liquidators to recover the costs they incurred in relation to the prosecution of a suit because the liquidators were able to demonstrate that their roles and responsibilities differed from that done by the lawyers (at [46]). In that case, the liquidators had to spend an extensive amount of time going through the primary source documents in order to give proper instructions to their lawyers. Their work, in other words, was anterior to and distinct from the work performed by the lawyers.
The observation I made in the previous section on over-servicing applies with equal force here. It seems to me that a more sensible approach would be to secure the agreement of relevant stakeholders, at the time of the receivers’ appointment, on the proper division of work between the insolvency practitioners and the other professionals engaged on the task.
Having set out the law in some detail, I now turn to the precise matters which were in dispute. I will first summarise the details of the bill. The R&M practised time-cost billing and they assessed their remuneration by a simple arithmetical formula: (time spent on work) x (hourly rate) = (remuneration). For the applicable period, there were a total of 14 persons in the team comprising three partners, four managers of varying levels of seniority, six associates, and one administrative assistant who spent a total of 5053.5 hours on the file. Their work spanned four broad categories: (a) operations and management (including the management of subsidiaries and associate companies); (b) compliance; (c) the conduct of the legal suits; and (d) human resource issues. A summary of the time spent by each member of the team for each category of work may be found in the following table:
The respondents pointed chiefly to perceived inefficiencies in the manner in which the R&M carried out their work and argued that there was a possible duplication of work. Their arguments may be divided into two broad categories. (a) First, they questioned the necessity of certain expenditure. Their principal complaint concerned the R&M’s excessive involvement in Suit No 523 of 2011 and Suit No 1015 of 2012 (“Suit 523” and “Suit 1015” respectively and, collectively, “the Suits”), in which Airtrust is the defendant. They pointed out that the bulk of the work would have been done by Airtrust’s solicitors (for which Airtrust would be separately billed) and that the intimate involvement of the R&M raised the possibility of a duplication of labour. (b) Second, they questioned the efficiency of the R&M’s work processes. The respondents pointed out that the R&M had devoted large amounts of professional time to simple administrative tasks like the performance of keyword searches and the indexing of documents. They argued that these tasks could have been more cost-effectively performed by administrative staff instead of being performed by fee earning associates charging hundreds of dollars an hour.
However, none of the respondents offered any proposal as to what an acceptable quantum of fees ought to be. It is also notable that the plaintiff, who was initially the most trenchant of the objectors, subsequently indicated her acceptance of the discounted fees though she stated that she would leave the question of whether any further discount ought to be applied to the Court.
In reply, the R&M raised three principal points. (a) First, the offer of a global discount of 30% would more than adequately address any concerns over perceived inefficiencies in their work processes. They pointed out that the total number of hours in dispute (ie, 2,726.75 hours) only represented 54% of the total time costs which were being claimed but that the offer of a discount would be applied on the bill as a whole (ie, 5035.5 hours). They therefore highlighted that, mathematically speaking, the 30% discount offer is equivalent to the R&M foregoing more than 50% of the disputed hours. (b) Second, the quantum of fees claimed compares favourably with the historical staff costs incurred by Airtrust. It was noted that the staff costs for the financial years ending 2008/2009 came up to more than S$2m, which is the same sum (following the 30% discount) that they sought in this application. (c) Third, there was a need for them to be actively involved in the conduct of the ongoing suits. Not only did this fall within their terms of reference (which was to manage the company’s daily affairs and to recover its assets), the substance of the Suits also necessitated an analysis of the company’s financial records, which was an area that they would be equipped to assist.
As noted at para 21.4.2(9) of the UK Insolvency PD 2014 , the court should have regard to the past billing practices of the receivers (and the level of remuneration fixed by the court). Therefore, I will begin with a longitudinal comparison of the present bill against the previous ones along several indices:
Several general points stand out for comment: (a) This was the first time that a bill had been presented in respect of a full year’s worth of work, the previous bills having been put up for either three or six months’ worth of work. (b) The size of the team had decreased steadily from a high of nearly 40 (in the first year of work) to the present size of 14. Throughout this period, there had also been a concomitant decrease in the amount of time spent on the matter. A total of 8321 hours was spent by the R&M in the first six months of their engagement (the first two bills) but this decreased significantly to 3402 hours (for the second half of 2012). This trend continued in 2013, where 5035 hours of work was recorded for one full year’s worth of work (ie, an average of about 2518 hours for half a year). (c) The bills of costs were reduced by 35–45% on each occasion by the court.
The R&M pointed out that the third bill of costs was for six months’ worth of work and the initial figure proposed then — S$1.6m (a monthly average of about $267,000) – compares favourably with the initial figure of $3.1m (a monthly average of about $258,000) proposed by the R&M in this bill. Prima facie, it would appear that the costs incurred, measured against the time-period of assessment, are similar.
However, the use of a monthly average threatens to obscure an important detail: the reduction in time spent. The R&M spent, on average, 567 hours per month in the third period of assessment but a much lower average figure of 442 hours in the present period of assessment. Taking this into account, it is curious that the average monthly fees have not gone down. The reason, I think, can be found in the overall increase in the seniority of the persons involved in the matter. The following table, which sets out the proportion of time spent by each grade of employee in respect of each period of assessment, is illustrative:
The present period of assessment is unique in that there had been an overall increase in the seniority of the persons handling the matter (though, in line with the total reduction in the time spent, the more senior members of the team also spent less time, in absolute terms, on the engagement in 2013 than they did in 2012). The time spent by associates fell (as a percentage of the total) from 67% in the previous period of assessment to 56% in the present. When you consider that the higher ranking members of the team command a substantially higher charge-out rate (for example, the partners bill $1,300 per hour), this explains why the costs have not gone down despite the substantial reduction in the size of the team.
It seemed to me that there were two reasons for the increase in the seniority of the persons handling the matter. The first was the reduction in the size of the team. In the second half of 2012, the team comprised 27 persons; in 2013, there were only 14 persons in the team (a reduction of more than half). If there is a reduction in manpower one can expect that many of the cuts will take place amongst the more junior members of the team. The essential tasks would then fall to be performed by persons who are more senior. The second reason was the greater devotion of partner time to the Suits. For example, Mr Loh spent 194 hours on the company’s matters in the second half of 2012 but billed for a total of 614 hours in the present period of assessment (of which a large part — 270.5 hours — was spent on the Suits). I will deal with the matter of the Suits later but it suffices to say for now that the general impression I had at the hearing was that the composition of the team was perhaps not ideal. At the end of the day, the goal is not a simple reduction of manpower, but an increase in cost-efficiency. If a quest for a lean team results in an increase in cost but no proportionate increase in value, then it is not a move which the court should give sanction to in its decision on remuneration.
Without delving into too much detail, my overall impression was that there was some degree of over-servicing. One particular area of concern related to matters which ought to have been performed by administrative or secretarial staff, and not by professionals commanding substantial hourly rates. For example, 207.5 hours were devoted to “indexing and sending ATS documents in the office to store” and on “maintaining records for the R&Ms”. Other examples include the 12.5 hours of a senior associate’s time expended on the “review and renewal (and termination) of insurance policies” and the 19.5 hours spent on the finalisation of sale in respect of a company vehicle.
When queried, the R&M replied that it was “important… to ensure proper record keeping” and that the tasks ­were “delegated mainly to junior staff (approximately 2 hours a week)”. The R&M also clarified that their associates did not handle the actual scanning of the documents (which they outsourced), but were involved in the retrieval and identification of the documents which were sent out. With respect, I found this argument unpersuasive. The retrieval and identification of these documents could easily have been performed by administrative staff, perhaps with the supervision or guidance of an associate. I did not see any need for the associates to do it themselves. If they elected to do so, they ought not to expect that this court will later give sanction to their claims. While I accepted that some degree of latitude must be afforded to insolvency practitioners (see [35] above), it appeared to me that substantial cost-savings could have been reaped in many areas. In my judgment, the court could not accept that it was “proper” to be remunerated to the tune of several hundred dollars an hour for the performance of administrative tasks.
Moving on to the Suits, it is notable that a total of 1865 hours (or 37% of the total time on the matter amounting to time-costs of nearly $1m) was spent on the Suits (see [61] above). A summary of the Suits and the work done in respect of each is as follows: (a) Suit 1015 is a claim for, inter alia, misrepresentation and conspiracy brought by Airtrust against sixteen parties. A total of 1089.5 hours was spent on Suit 1015 to deal with a number of interlocutory applications which arose in connection with the suit. These included applications for service out of jurisdiction and requests for further and better particulars. A large amount of time was spent on preparatory matters in advance of the trial of Suit 1015 (eg, e-discovery matters and keyword searches). (b) Suit 523 is an action brought against Airtrust by two of its shareholders in which the repayment of several purported loans were sought. A total of 664.5 hours was spent, inter alia, on the review of the pleadings and trial documents, preparation for the trial, and on post-judgment follow-up work.
The respondents raised a number of concerns over the unnecessary duplication of work in relation to the Suits, given that WongPartnership LLP (“WongP”) had conduct of the Suits. I agreed with those concerns. Many of the tasks listed appeared to be matters within the exclusive domain of their lawyers’ expertise. They included: review of the pleadings (211 hours), strategy in respect of overseas defendant service, review of further and better particulars (160.5 hours), preparation of possible cross-examination questions, review of transcripts during the trial, and discussions with witnesses (93 hours collectively). It did not appear to me that the R&M, with respect, could or would have been able to offer any meaningful contribution to these matters. As explained at [59] above, if there are several sets of professionals engaged for the same task or scope of work, the onus lies on the R&M to justify that the work they performed was distinct and separate from that performed by the other professionals.
It seemed that the R&M had anticipated this criticism. In his supporting affidavit, Mr Loh had deposed that even though the bulk of the work in relation to the Suits was done by WongP, the R&M still had to review the documents (which were voluminous) in order to give them proper instructions. He explained that, given the R&M’s familiarity with the source documents, it was necessary for them to work “in tandem” with WongP in the prosecution of the Suits since they were ultimately responsible for the conduct of the Suits. When more specific questions were raised in relation to particular items in the spreadsheets, the R&M followed up with somewhat banal responses which included “it is not uncommon for a litigant to work closely with its lawyer in complex litigation” and “the Receivers and Managers were ultimately responsible for the conduct of the suit and therefore had to ensure that the suit was properly conducted.”
I did not find these responses particularly helpful. The problem, it seemed to me, was that there was no clear demarcation of the relative roles and responsibilities between the lawyers and the R&M. This is quite unlike the situation in Dovechem. In that case, the suit was already proceeding to trial when it was held in abeyance due to the entry of the company into liquidation. When the liquidators took conduct of the matter, they discharged the previous counsel and instructed new ones, who had to work closely with the liquidators to amend the statement of claim in short time before the trial. The urgency of the matter (due to the impending hearing) and the fact that the liquidators were far more familiar with the matter necessitated their intimate involvement in the legal proceedings. On our facts, WongP had been acting for Airtrust for at least two years so it cannot be said that either of these conditions obtained.
At the end of the day, the company still has to pay both sets of professionals their respective sets of fees. In my judgment, the court could not classify the significant devotion of the R&M’s resources to litigation as “proper” when the evidence was that lawyers had been instructed and were capable of managing the cases.
One point which received much attention during the hearings was the staggering amount of time spent by the R&M on e-discovery. In total, nearly 1000 hours were devoted to this task, of which 860 hours were devoted to the performance and review of keyword searches while the remainder was spent in relation to discussions pertaining to the e-discovery protocol to be applied. I stated at the hearing that I was not convinced that it ought properly to be the responsibility of the R&M to perform these tasks and I remain of that view today. In the main, matters relating to discovery should be performed by lawyers, and not their accountants. Furthermore, even if it were accepted that this task ought to be undertaken or assisted by the R&M, it seemed to me that this was work which must be capable of being performed by administrative staff (perhaps with supervision), instead of being performed by the insolvency professionals themselves.
When queried, the R&M replied that these tasks were performed largely by “junior staff” (ie, associates and senior associates) with supervision from the managers and partners. It was not clear to me how this sufficed as an explanation. Even “junior staff” on the R&M’s payroll command charge-out rates ranging from $250 to $365 an hour. Even by the most conservative of estimates, these e-discovery matters would have cost Airtrust at least $300,000. In my judgment, the significant devotion of professional time (and company resources) to such tasks fell far beyond the realm of what could be said to be fair, reasonable, or proportionate.
One discrete point which can quickly be dealt with concerns the 189 hours of work clocked by Ms Damiri at a charge-out rate of $250 per hour (for a total time cost of $47,500). In the Bill, Ms Damiri’s title is listed as “administrative intermediate” and she was categorised as a member of the “administrative staff” by Mr Loh in his affidavit. In Dovechem at [65] and [66], it was held that insolvency practitioners should not be allowed to include time charges for work done by administrative staff in their bills. The assistance rendered by administrative staff should be treated as part of the receivers’ overheads and cannot be the subject matter of a separate claim unless it is an exceptional case (see [53(c)] above). No evidence was presented to show that this was such a case.
In justifying the reasonableness of the Bill, the R&M drew two analogies. They argued that the total number of hours spent — 5035.5 hours — was the equivalent of 2.39 persons working as full time employees, which was reasonable for a company of the size and complexity of Airtrust. Further, they also argued that the discounted sum of remuneration sought at $2.2m was comparable to the historic manpower costs of the company (when it had between 18 and 25 members of staff on its payroll), which ranged from $1.3m to $2.4m.
I did not find either of these comparisons apposite. First, the inquiries are completely different. In deciding on the remuneration of the R&M, this court has to consider the question of fair value. By contrast, in deciding on how much to pay its staff, a company has to consider the question of profitability. Second, the character of the company has obviously changed significantly since the days when it was a going concern. Thus, the historic manpower costs of the company when it was still active is not an appropriate comparator for the costs which should be awarded to the R&M in its current, straitened, circumstances.
By the same token, however, I also rejected the attempt of the respondents to assess the value of the R&M’s contributions purely in terms of the monetary returns it generated. For example, the respondents had argued that the 219.25 hours spent on the filing of returns for Goods and Services Tax was excessive, considering that Airtrust only obtained $71,000 in refunds. I agreed with the R&M when they pointed out that the filing of these returns is a statutory requirement so the reasonableness of the time expended on this issue cannot be crudely benchmarked against the quantum of refunds obtained alone (see [37] above).
Having conducted a general qualitative review of the bill, I now turn to the question of the quantum. As a preliminary point, I rejected the R&M’s argument that the 30% discount offered should be sufficient to take care of any inefficiency that might have been present in respect of the R&M’s handling of the disputed matters, which pertained to only 54% of the total time-costs claimed (see [64(a)] above). The assumption in this argument is that the remit of the court was limited only to the matters over which queries have been raised. This is incorrect. As I pointed out at [42] above, the remit of this Court, insofar as the question of remuneration is concerned, is more wide-ranging and is not limited only to the matters over which the parties have disputed. Thus, I considered that it was appropriate for me to consider the question of quantum more critically. I now explain my decision with reference to the two-stage approach as set out at [43] and [44] above.
I begin at stage one. The R&Ms had initially presented a bill of $2.9m for their professional fees, derived from a calculation of the time expended by each individual multiplied by their respective charge-out rates. However, I was mindful that in a long insolvency like the present case, a broad discount on the hourly rate is usually warranted. I also noted that there has been a general upward lift in the charge-out rates applied by the practitioners. The charge-out rate for the partners has remained constant (at $1,300 per hour) since the start of the insolvency. However, the managers and associates now charge figures which are, on average, 10% higher than they did in the previous bill (eg, Ms Jotangia, who spent a total of 788 hours on this matter, used to charge between $550 and $600 per hour but now charged $600 to $650 per hour; in a similar vein, the associates, who used to command between $210 to $250 per hour, now billed at a flat rate of $250). I am not saying that charge-out rates have to stay static throughout the length of the engagement but increases have to be justified and no reasons were furnished in this case.
That being said, however, I was mindful that it is not the role of this court to prescribe, in intimate detail, the appropriate charge-out rates for each practitioner. Thus, I used the discounted figure of $2m supplied by the R&M as a working figure for analysis.
At stage two, I first disallowed the claim for $47,250 for Ms Damiri’s time-costs in toto. This left me with a figure of about $1.95m. I then considered the impact of my observations about the unnecessary use of the R&M’s time on the Suits, the concerns in respect of over-management, and the fact that many tasks could and ought to have been performed more cost-efficiently (perhaps by administrative staff instead of insolvency practitioners). I was mindful of the fact that many of the concerns I had articulated are not new. Several of them had been articulated by Lee JC at the hearing of the Third Bill. For example, at that time, there was also fractious disagreement regarding matters such as the devotion of the R&M’s time (chargeable at $400/h) to matters such as the relocation of the office and there was also concern over a possible duplication of work between the lawyers and the R&M in relation to Suit 1015. At the end, Lee JC reduced the sum claimed by 38%, which was a further 28% reduction on top of the 10% discount that the R&M had offered at the time of the hearing. With those points in mind, I was of the view that a further adjustment (on top of the 30% discount already offered and applied at stage one) was warranted.
After reviewing the facts and circumstances in their totality, I reduced the quantum of the professional fees charged by a further 10% to $1.8m (ie, a 40% reduction from the original figure claimed).
At the end of the hearing, I clarified that my decision ought not to be seen as a critique of the work of the R&M. I have no doubt that they are consummate professionals who sincerely believe that they are entitled to be remunerated as charged. However, the problem here is one of mismatched expectations. This court is not here to grant remuneration on market principles. Instead, its duty is to award a “proper” sum which is a fair, reasonable, and proportionate reflection of the value of the services rendered. The market price for their services is but a component of the court’s all-encompassing analysis of what “proper” remuneration ought to consist of.
All the Judges who have heard the matter before me expressed the hope that this matter would proceed forward in a more orderly fashion. That is also my wish and the primary motivation for my decision to issue full written grounds on this matter to explore the possibility of setting up a system of costs scheduling in this area. It is certainly of no profit to anyone for the company to be bled dry through collateral litigation of this sort. I hope that the insolvency Bar will take guidance from the points covered in these grounds as well as the annex on “costs scheduling” which is to follow.