In Public Prosecutor v Galing Anak Kujat and another [2010] SGHC 212 (“the Trial Judge’s decision”), Jabing Kho (“the Respondent”), and his co-accused, Galing Anak Kujat (“Gailing”), were convicted of murder under s 300(c) read with s 34 and punishable under s 302 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“PC”), and Kan Ting Chiu J (“the Trial Judge”) passed the mandatory death sentence on them accordingly.
On appeal, the Court of Appeal in Kho Jabing and another v Public Prosecutor [2011] 3 SLR 634 (“the CA (Conviction) Decision”) affirmed the Respondent’s conviction and sentence. This CA (which for ease of reference will be referred to as “CA (Conviction)”), however, allowed Galing’s appeal and his conviction of murder was substituted with a conviction of the offence of robbery with hurt committed in furtherance of a common intention under s 394 read with s 34 of the PC. Galing’s case was then remitted back to the Trial Judge for resentencing and he was eventually sentenced to an imprisonment term of 18 years and 6 months and 19 strokes of the cane.
The Penal Code (Amendment) Act 2012 (Act No 32 of 2012) (“the PCAA”) was then enacted by Parliament to amend the PC. Pertinently, s 2 of the PCAA provide that: Repeal and re-enactment of section 302 2. Section 302 of the Penal Code is repealed and the following section substituted therefor: “Punishment for murder 302.—(1) Whoever commits murder within the meaning of section 300(a) shall be punished with death. (2) Whoever commits murder within the meaning of section 300(b), (c) or (d) shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life and shall, if he is not punished with death, also be liable to caning.”. …
Sections 4(5) and (6) of the PCAA then provided for certain transitional provisions: Savings and transitional provisions … 4. —(5) Where on the appointed day, the Court of Appeal has dismissed an appeal brought by a person for an offence of murder under section 302 of the Penal Code, the following provisions shall apply: … (f) if the Court of Appeal clarifies under paragraph (c)(ii) or (d) that the person is guilty of murder within the meaning of section 300(b), (c) or (d) of the Penal Code, it shall remit the case back to the High Court for the person to be re-sentenced; (g) when the case is remitted back to the High Court under paragraph (f), the High Court shall re-sentence the person to death or imprisonment for life and the person shall, if he is not re-sentenced to death, also be liable to be re-sentenced to caning; … (6) If – (a) any Judge of the High Court, having heard the trial relating to an offence of murder, is unable for any reason to sentence, affirm the sentence or re-sentence a person under this section… … any other Judge of the High Court… may do so.
On 30 April 2013, the Court of Appeal confirmed that the Respondent was convicted under s 300(c) of the PC and allowed his application for his case to be remitted to the High Court for re-sentencing pursuant to s 4(5)(f) of the PCAA.
The hearing for re-sentencing came before another High Court judge (as the Trial Judge had by then retired from the Bench) (“the Re-sentencing Judge”), who re-sentenced the Respondent to life imprisonment with effect from the date of his arrest (ie, 26 February 2008) and 24 strokes of the cane (see Public Prosecutor v Kho Jabing [2014] 1 SLR 973 (“the Re-sentencing Judge’s Decision”)).
The Prosecution then appealed against the Re-sentencing Judge’s decision, urging this Court to impose the death sentence upon the Respondent on the ground that this was an extremely vicious attack on the victim.
At the very heart of this appeal lies a critical legal question – for an offence of murder where the mandatory death penalty does not apply, in what circumstances would the death penalty still be warranted?
This seemingly simple question belies a great deal of difficulties and complications, along with the severe consequences and implications any answer brings. Given that this is the first case of its kind to reach the Court of Appeal since the amendments to the mandatory death penalty were enacted, previous case law was, at best, marginally helpful. In fact, both the Prosecution and counsel for the Respondent were hard-pressed, very understandably so, to suggest any local authority which might be helpful to us.
This appeal therefore requires this Court to set down some guidelines and principles as to how this discretion ought to be exercised. After considering the submissions made by the Prosecution and counsel for the Respondent, we allow the Prosecution’s appeal and impose the death sentence on the Respondent. Our detailed reasons for this decision are set out hereunder.
During the appeal, we had raised a number of queries to both the counsel for the Respondent and the Prosecution with the objective of clarifying exactly how the court should come to its decision as to the circumstances when the death penalty, as compared to life imprisonment and caning, would be the more appropriate sentence in a case like this. In sum, the numerous questions can be condensed into two broad questions which accurately capture our concerns: (a) What circumstances should the Court take into consideration? (b) Do the normal sentencing principles apply?
Obviously the first matter which we ought to consider in this regard would be the parliamentary debates concerning the enactment of the PCAA. In the debates during the introduction of the amendments (see Changes to the Application of the Mandatory Death Penalty to Homicide Offences (Statement by Minister for Law), Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report (9 July 2012) vol 89), the Minister for Law explained that three factors would be relevant in deciding when the death penalty is appropriate: In deciding whether and how to apply the death penalty to a particular offence, several factors have to be considered. In particular I will mention, in broad terms, three interconnected factors: (1) the seriousness of the offence, both in terms of the harm that the commission of the offence is likely to cause to the victim and to society, and the personal culpability of the accused; (2) how frequent or widespread an offence is; and (3) deterrence. These three factors must be considered in their totality. For example, the fact that an offence is not widespread or that its incidence is low may not, by itself, be a decisive factor. The overarching aim of the Government is to ensure the safety and security of Singapore, while maintaining a fair and just criminal system. Intentional killing within the meaning of 300(a) is one of the most serious offences in our books. Put simply, this is a case where the offender intends the death of the victim. It is right to punish such offenders with the most severe penalty. It is right to provide for the most powerful deterrent against such offences. It is right, therefore, that the mandatory death penalty should continue to apply to such intentional killing. In respect of other categories of murder, under section 300(b) to (d), there could be different degrees of intention, and these offences are committed in a variety of situations. Today, that is something considered by the Public Prosecutor when he decides the appropriate charge in each case. The factors he considers include the precise intention of the accused, the manner in which the homicide occurred and the deterrent effect a charge may have on others. We want to move towards a framework where the court also has the discretion, to take the same factors into account during sentencing. This change will ensure that our sentencing framework properly balances the various objectives: justice to the victim, justice to society, justice to the accused, and mercy in appropriate cases. … We now have a relatively low incidence of homicides – last year we had 16 recorded homicides, or about 0.3 per 100,000 population. As our society becomes safer, less violent, and more mature, we believe that today’s changes are a right step to take. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
In trying to show how the Re-sentencing Judge had erred, the Prosecution in their submissions for this appeal had analysed these three factors and then “categorized” the circumstances of the case according to these three factors. While the Prosecution should not be faulted for doing so, in our opinion, we find that these factors are best considered in totality, and should serve as guiding considerations rather than distinct factors in deciding whether the death penalty is appropriate. As can be seen, the Minister for Law had explained these three factors in “broad terms”, suggesting that a broad and holistic approach should be taken. At the risk of stating the obvious, the factual matrix and circumstances of each case would be extremely varied, and Parliament could not have intended a formulistic approach in applying these three factors in deciding whether or not the death penalty would be the appropriate sentence for a particular case.
In any event, these three factors, by their nature, do not lend themselves to a formulistic approach – these factors are clearly not “objective” factors which can be “measured” or “fulfilled”. When counsel for the Respondent and the Prosecution were asked whether there were any objective factors which could guide the Court in making its decision, both candidly admitted that apart from suggesting certain objective factors described by the courts of other jurisdictions, they were unable to state any “objective factors” other than what the Minister for Law had stated in the parliamentary debates.
This further reinforces our view that deciding whether or not the death penalty is the appropriate sentence cannot be done in a formulistic manner, unlike, for example, establishing liability for a breach of the duty of care where there are specific elements of the tort which can be established. Therefore, in our opinion, the factors as explained in the parliamentary debates simply point to the general principle that the facts of the case must be considered in their totality in determining the appropriate sentence, and are not meant to be part of a legal test to establish when the death penalty would be appropriate. While there is no doubt that the court should take cognizance of the three factors, they must be considered alongside the whole plethora of circumstances prevailing in that case.
Next we examine the decisions from other jurisdictions where a similar discretionary death penalty for murder is also provided. Counsel for the Respondent, both in this appeal and during the re-sentencing hearing below, relied upon a number of decisions from other jurisdictions in submitting that when the court has the discretion to decide whether or not to impose the death penalty, it should only do so in the “worst of the worst” and the “rarest of the rare” cases. In response to these submissions, the Re-sentencing Judge, at [38] of his decision, held that: I do not find it necessary or fruitful to look at decisions in other jurisdictions as to when the death penalty would be appropriate. Each society must decide for itself what type and degree of punishment it wants and needs in the unique context of its values and the level of development on all fronts, including social, cultural and economic ones.
The criminal justice system of a country is the bedrock of a safe and orderly society and is designed to produce order and justice in the relationships between man and man and between man and state. It is at the very heart of a functional and flourishing society, and we cannot emphasize further that it must be built upon the society’s cultural, moral, political and economic norms. This will be especially so for something as controversial and sensitive as the death penalty. On this perspective, we generally agree with the observations of the Re-sentencing Judge as stated above. That said, although decisions from other jurisdictions ought to be viewed with some degree of circumspection, they can, to a certain extent, still provide some guidance in working out our criminal justice system. After all, it is in the collective wisdom of man that perhaps each can find his own illuminating light to guide his path. It will therefore be beneficial to examine a number of decisions from other jurisdictions which have tried to work out a clear and practical approach in meting out the discretionary death penalty.
We start off first with India, from where our Penal Code finds its historical roots. In Bachan Singh v The State Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 (“Bachan Singh”), the leading case in India on the discretionary death penalty, the Supreme Court of India held (at [209]): Facts and Figures, albeit incomplete, furnished by the Union of India, show that in the past, courts have inflicted the extreme penalty with extreme infrequency — a fact which attests to the caution and compassion which they have always brought to bear on the exercise of their sentencing discretion in so grave a matter. It is, therefore, imperative to voice the concern that courts, aided by the broad illustrative guidelines indicated by us, will discharge the onerous function with evermore scrupulous care and humane concern, directed along the highroad of legislative policy outlined in Section 354(3) viz. that for persons convicted of murder, life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence an exception. A real and abiding concern for the dignity of human life postulates resistance to taking a life through law’s instrumentality. That ought not to be done save in the rarest of rare cases when the alternative option is unquestionably foreclosed. [emphasis added]
The “rarest of rare” principle laid down in Bachan Singh continues to be the guiding principle for the Indian courts applying the discretionary death penalty. It is important however to understand the legislative context in which this principle arose from. Originally, pursuant to s 367(5) of the 1898 Indian Code of Criminal Procedure (Act No V of 1898) (“1898 CCP”), the Courts in India were mandated by statute to state reasons if the death penalty was not passed, whenever the accused was convicted of an offence with the discretionary death penalty. Section 367(5) of the 1898 CCP provided that: If the accused is convicted of an offence punishable with death and the Court sentences him to any punishment other than death, the Court shall in its judgment state the reason why sentence of death was not passed.
A different position was however taken when the 1973 Code of Criminal Procedure (Act 2 of 1974) (“1973 CCP”) was enacted. Section 354(3) of the 1973 CPC provided that: When the conviction is for an offence punishable with death, or, in the alternative, with imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of years, the judgment shall state the reasons for the sentence awarded, and, in the case of sentence of death, the special reasons for such sentence. [emphasis added]
The 1973 CCP therefore effectively reversed the position as it existed under the 1898 CCP – the Indian Court now has the duty to give special reasons if the sentence of death is imposed. Given this legislative change, it is therefore not surprising that the Court in Bachan Singh was ready to find that it was only in the “rarest of rare” cases that the death penalty should be imposed.
Shortly after Bachan Singh, the Supreme Court of India fine-tuned its approach as to what would be a “rarest of rare” case. In Machhi Singh v State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 (“Machhi Singh”), the Supreme Court of India considered that five factors could be relevant. Four of them are: (a) The manner of commission of the murder; (b) The motive for the murder; (c) The anti-social or abhorrent nature of the crime; and (d) The magnitude of the crime.
At [33] to [36], it described the four factors as such: I. Manner of Commission of murder 33. When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting, or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme indignation of the community. For instance, (i) When the house of the victim is set aflame with the end in view to roast him alive in the house. (ii) When the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or cruelty in order to bring about his or her death. (iii) When the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is dismembered in a fiendish manner. II. Motive for commission of murder 34. When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity and meanness. For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the sake of money or reward (b) a cold-blooded murder is committed with a deliberate design in order to inherit property or to gain control over property of a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or vis-a-vis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust, or (c) a murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland. III. Anti-social or socially abhorrent nature of the crime. 35. (a) When murder of a Scheduled Caste or minority community etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse social wrath. For instance when such a crime is committed in order to terrorize such persons and frighten them into fleeing from a place or in order to deprive them of, or make them surrender, lands or benefits conferred on them with a view to reverse past in justices [sic] and in order to restore the social balance. (b) In cases of “bride burning” and what are known as “dowry deaths” or when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of extracting dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of infatuation. IV. Magnitude of crime 36. When the crime is enormous in proportion. For instance when multiple murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed.
The Supreme Court of India also felt that the “personality of victim of murder” would be a relevant factor. Eventually, the Supreme Court of India endorsed a “balance sheet” approach (at [38(iv)]), where: A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances has to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.
By identifying the factors above, it would appear that the Supreme Court of India was placing emphasis on both the crime and the criminal in evaluating the appropriateness of the death penalty. The “balance sheet” approach in determining whether a case was the “rarest of the rare” continued to apply for a period of time. It would later however transpire that there was much practical difficulty in applying this test. We do not propose to go through an extensive review of Indian case law, but suffice it to say that in Sangeet v State of Haryana (2013) 2 SCC 452, the Supreme Court of India discussed a number of cases ever since Bachan Singh, and found that there had been “little or no uniformity in the application of this approach” (referring to the “balance sheet approach” advocated in Machhi Singh). At [77], it conclusively did away with this balance sheet approach, stating that: 77.1. This Court has not endorsed the approach of aggravating and mitigating circumstances in Bachan Singh. However, this approach has been adopted in several decisions. This needs a fresh look. In any event, there is little or no uniformity in the application of this approach. 77.2. Aggravating circumstances relate to the crime while mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. A balance sheet cannot be drawn up for comparing the two. The considerations for both are distinct and unrelated. The use of the mantra of aggravating and mitigating circumstances needs a review. 77.3. In the sentencing process, both the crime and the criminal are equally important. We have, unfortunately, not taken the sentencing process as seriously as it should be with the result that in capital offences, it has become judge-centric sentencing rather than principled sentencing. …
We note that the “rarest of rare” principle is not unique to India. In R v Trimmingham [2009] UKPC 25 (an appeal from the Court of Appeal of St Vincent and the Grenadines), the Privy Council likewise endorsed a similar principle. In observing that the approach a sentencing judge should follow in a case where the imposition of the death sentence is discretionary was relatively well-established by the Caribbean Courts, the Privy Council at [21] held that: [i]t can be expressed in two basic principles. The first has been expressed in several different formulations, but they all carry the same message, that the death penalty should be imposed only in cases which on the facts of the offence are the most extreme and exceptional, “the worst of the worst” or “the rarest of the rare”. In considering whether a particular case falls into that category, the judge should of course compare it with other murder cases and not with ordinary civilised behaviour. The second principle is that there must be no reasonable prospect of reform of the offender and that the object of punishment could not be achieved by any means other than the ultimate sentence of death. The character of the offender and any other relevant circumstances are to be taken into account in so far as they may operate in his favour by way of mitigation and are not to weigh in the scales against him. Before it imposes a sentence of death the court must be properly satisfied that these two criteria have been fulfilled. [emphasis added]
In the United States, a similar “rarest of the rare” principle seems to apply. The death penalty is only awarded in the most extreme of circumstances – in Roper v Simmonds 543 US 551 (2005) at 568, the US Supreme Court citing its previous decision in Atkins v Virginia 536 US 304 (2002) at 319, held that: [c]apital punishment must be limited to those offenders who commit “a narrow category of the most serious crimes” and whose extreme culpability makes them “the most deserving of execution.”
Furthermore, a non-exhaustive list of factors the US Courts must consider is also statutorily provided for in Title 18, Chapter 228, Section 3592 of the United States Code. These factors include impaired capacity, duress, minor participation, equally culpable defendants, heinous, cruel, or depraved manner of committing offense, pecuniary gain and substantial planning and premeditation, to name a few.
Finally, we turn to local case authorities. As mentioned above, this is the first case of its kind (brought about by the amendments to the PC – see [3] above) to be decided by us and there are no reported local case authorities directly on point. There is however, a decision based on the offence of gang-robber with murder in the Penal Code (Cap 224, 1985 Rev Ed) (“PC (1985)”) which provides: Gang-robbery with murder 396. If any one of 5 or more persons who are conjointly committing gang-robbery, commits murder in so committing gang-robbery, every one of those persons shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life, and if he is not sentenced to death, shall also be punished with caning with not less than 12 strokes.
Section 396 of the PC (1985) which is similarly worded to s 302(2) of the PC (the provision under consideration in the present case), was interpreted and applied by the Court of Appeal in Panya Martmontree and others v Public Prosecutor [1995] 2 SLR(R) 806 (“Panya”). In dismissing the appeal and confirming the sentences of death passed by the High Court, the Court of Appeal at [66] noted that: When the appellants went to the Tampines site to steal valuable equipment, like surveying equipment, as was in fact stolen, armed with lethal weapons they must have intended to cause grievous bodily harm and even death to anyone who stood in their way. This is what they in fact did. Their acts of violence were mercilessly executed and gravely abhorrent in their execution. In our view, these acts of violence were amply sufficient to "outrage the feeling [sic] of the community". Further in our judgment there was no reason to discriminate between them as they were all in it together and it cannot be said with any certainty which of them inflicted the fatal blows and which of them took a passive role. The learned judge had not erred. [emphasis added]
We note the strong language used by the Court of Appeal in Panya to describe the acts of the offenders in its decision to uphold the death penalty. Particularly, the Court of Appeal had used the phrase “outrage the feeling[s] of the community” in evaluating the acts of the offenders.
This phrase originated from the decision in Sia Ah Kew and others v Public Prosecutor [1974 – 1976] SLR(R) 54 (“Sia Ah Kew”), which was cited with approval in Panya. Sia Ah Kew was a case involving kidnapping for ransom, an offence under s 3 of the Kidnapping Act (Cap 101, 1970 Rev Ed) which provided: Whoever, with intent to hold any person for ransom, abducts or wrongfully restrains or wrongfully confines such person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be punished on conviction with death or imprisonment for life and shall, if he is not sentenced to death, also be liable to caning.
Here, the court likewise had the discretion in deciding whether or not to impose the death penalty. The Court of Appeal first noted at [3] that given the wording of the statute, the courts had: … a very limited discretion with regard to sentence, the discretion being limited to the imposition of one of three sentences, the maximum being death and the minimum being imprisonment for life. The third is imprisonment for life with caning.
In deciding when to impose the maximum penalty, that is, the death penalty, the Court of Appeal held at [5] that: … [i]t is a long and well established principle of sentencing that the Legislature in fixing the maximum penalty for a criminal offence intends it only for the worst cases. However, in the case of the offence of kidnapping for ransom the discretion given to the courts as regards the sentence is, as earlier stated, very limited in scope. In our opinion the maximum sentence prescribed by the Legislature would be appropriate where the manner of the kidnapping or the acts or conduct of the kidnappers are such as to outrage the feelings of the community. [emphasis added]
We will now review the points that we have raised above and set out our views as to their relevance in this appeal.
First, the three factors alluded to in the relevant parliamentary debates are non-exhaustive and are just guiding considerations which the court should bear in mind when determining whether the death penalty is an appropriate sentence in a specific case. In our opinion, the parliamentary debates do not suggest that the courts should only pay or pay particular credence to these three factors.
It is our judgment that the trite and well established sentencing principle that all the circumstances and factors of the case must be taken into consideration in meting out an appropriate sentence continues to apply, and this is supported by the fact that the Minister for Law had stated the three factors in broad terms and specifically mentioned that they were to be considered in totality. As we see it, these three factors were highlighted because they will very likely surface in any evaluation of a case involving the discretionary death penalty.
Second, the leading principle in other jurisdictions, as the survey above touching on the positions in India, St Vincent and Grenadines, and the United States shows, is that the death penalty should only be imposed for the “rarest of rare” or the “worst of the worst” cases. To follow this principle would mean that it is only in the most extreme of circumstances and the narrowest of cases that the death penalty would be imposed. The practical implication of this principle can be illustrated briefly by a number of cases.
In Manohar Lal alias Mannu & Another v State (NCT) of Delhi (2000) 2 SCC 92, the offenders burned four sons alive in front of their mother. On appeal, the death penalty was set aside because the Supreme Court of India felt that the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had “blinded” the offenders, leading them to a rampage triggered by a demented psyche. The offenders “had no special or personal animosity towards anyone of the deceased individually” (at [7]). Pertinently, the Supreme Court of India also (at [9]) cited a previous decision, Kishori v State of Delhi [1999] 1 SCC 148, where the facts were analogous and where the death penalty was not imposed.
In Ravindra Trimbak Chouthmal v State of Maharashtra (1996) 4 SCC 148, the victim was murdered, her head severed from her body, and her body cut up into nine pieces and kept in two suitcases which was subsequently disposed of. This was a case of “dowry death”, where the murder was the result of the husband’s family being unhappy with the dowry received from the marriage. The Supreme Court of India overturned the High Court’s decision to impose the death penalty, and at [9] and [10], observed that: 9. The present was thus a murder most foul, as pointed out by us in the opening paragraph. The motive was to get another girl for the appellant who could get dowry to satisfy the greed of the father. Dowry-deaths are blood- boiling, as human blood is spilled to satisfy raw-greed, naked greed; a greed which has no limit. Nonetheless, question is whether the extreme penalty was merited in the present case? 10. We have given considered thought to the question and we have not been able to place the case in that category which could be regarded as the "rarest of the rare" type. This is so because dowry death has ceased to belong to that species of killing. The increasing number of dowry deaths would bear this. To halt the rising graph, we, at one point, thought to maintain the sentence; but we entertain doubt about the deterrent effect of a death penalty. We, therefore, resist ourselves from upholding the death sentence, much though we would have desired annihilation of a despicable character like the appellant before us. We, therefore character like the appellant before us. We, therefore, commute the sentence of death to one of RI for life imprisonment. [emphasis in original]
In our respectful opinion, we do not find that the “rarest of rare” principle is appropriate for Singapore. To adopt this principle would be to artificially confine and sequester the death penalty to the narrowest of regions and to restrict the imposition of the death penalty based on whether the actions of the offender are “rare” in comparison with other offenders. This should not be the case in our context. Admittedly, the often cited sentencing principle is that the maximum penalty is only intended for the worst form of cases (see for example, Sim Gek Yong v PP [1995] 1 SLR(R) 185 at [13], which was cited with approval in the Re-sentencing Judge’s Decision at [12]).
However, the context in which this principle was laid down is different in the sense that in the normal case the sentencing judge has a much wider discretion and a range of penalties from which to choose from. In such a scenario, given that there is a range of penalties reflecting differing degrees of moral culpability, it would make sense that it is only in the worst form of cases that the maximum penalty should be meted out. However, this is not the case with the discretionary death penalty. To quote the Court of Appeal in Sia Ah Kew at [5], the “discretion given to the courts as regards the sentence is… very limited in scope”; the court does not have the luxury to choose from a range of penalties.
Given the fact that the discretion is confined to only the imposition of either the death sentence or life imprisonment with caning, we do not find that the “rarest of the rare” principle effectively meets the objective of having the discretionary death penalty in our sentencing regime. As explained by the Minister for Law in the parliamentary debates, the objective behind introducing the discretionary death penalty was to balance “the various objectives: justice to the victim, justice to society, justice to the accused, and mercy in appropriate cases”. All these considerations must be taken into account, and we do not think that they would be properly reflected if we should adopt the “rarest of the rare” principle.
In our judgment, a more appropriate principle to follow would be that laid down by the Court of Appeal in Sia Ah Kew, which is, whether the actions of the offender would outrage the feelings of the community. Undoubtedly, capital punishment is an expression of society’s indignation towards particularly offensive conduct, and the fact that the death penalty continues to be part of our sentencing regime is an expression of society’s belief that certain actions are so grievous an affront to humanity and so abhorrent that the death penalty may, in the face of such circumstances, be the appropriate, if not the only, adequate sentence. It would therefore, in our judgment, be correct to consider the strong feelings of the community in deciding whether or not to impose the death penalty.
In determining whether the actions of the offender would outrage the feelings of the community, we find that the death penalty would be the appropriate sentence when the offender has acted in a way which exhibits viciousness or a blatant disregard for human life. Viewed in this light, it is the manner in which the offender acted which takes centre stage. For example, in the case of a violent act leading to death, the savagery of the attack would be indicative of the offender’s regard for human life. The number of stabs or blows, the area of the injury, the duration of the attack and the force used would all be pertinent factors to be considered.
We would observe that the significance of each of these factors would invariably vary, depending on the circumstances of the case. For example, the factors to consider would be extremely different in a case of non-violent acts leading to death, such as where the death was caused by poisoning. It is the offender’s (dis)regard for human life which will be critical. This explains why an offence under s 300(a) of the PC, where the offender had the clear intention to cause death, still carries the mandatory death penalty.
Therefore when an offender acts in a way which exhibits a blatant disregard for human life which is just shy of the requisite intention to sustain a charge under s 300(a) of the PC, the imposition of the death penalty would be the appropriate sentence to reflect the moral culpability of such an offender. This approach would also be in accordance with what the Minister for Law had explained as being the seriousness of the offence, personal culpability of the accused and the manner in which the homicide occurred in the parliamentary debates.
That said, the court should still take into consideration all the other circumstances of the case. While the offender’s regard for human life remains at the forefront of the court’s consideration, other facts such as the offender’s age and intelligence continue to be relevant.
In Public Prosecutor v Ellarry bin Puling and another [2011] SGHC 214 (“Fabian”), F and E were foreigners on work permits in Singapore. On 22 August 2008, they set out on bicycles to find victims to rob. F was armed with a piece of wood which he had picked up the night before, with the intention of striking his victims with it before robbing them. In the early morning of 23 August 2008, F and E spotted the deceased sitting alone at a bus stop using his phone. F approached the person from behind and hit him on the head three times, before tripping him and kicking him when he was on the ground. The victim was then robbed. The victim later fell into a coma, and eventually succumbed to his injuries. The cause of death was certified to be intracranial haemorrhage and cerebral contusions due to a fractured skull. F was convicted of murder under s 300(c) of the PC.
F’s conviction was upheld on appeal (in Criminal Case Appeal No 15 of 2011) and his case was subsequently sent back for resentencing under the relevant provisions of the PCAA. At the resentencing hearing (Criminal Case No 40 of 2009), the trial judge in that case found that although the attack was vicious, he took into account the fact that the accused was young (18 years old at the time of offence) and had sub-normal intelligence in eventually deciding not to impose the death penalty. This is an example of how the court must continue to take into consideration all the other circumstances of the case.
We summarize our views on the principles guiding this court in determining when it would be appropriate to impose the death penalty as follows: (a) The factors alluded to by the Minister for Law in the parliamentary debates are clearly relevant considerations. However, no especial credence should be placed on them. The well-established sentencing principle that all the circumstances and factors of the case must be taken into consideration in meting out an appropriate sentence continues to apply. (b) The “rarest of rare” principle is not applicable in our legislative scheme of things. A more appropriate principle to follow would be the one laid down by the Court of Appeal in Sia Ah Kew, which is to discern whether the actions of the offender would outrage the feelings of the community. (c) In determining whether the actions of the offender would outrage the feelings of the community and in turn warrant the imposition of the death penalty, the court must consider whether the offender has acted in a way which exhibits a blatant disregard for human life. Thus the manner in which the offender acted would be critical. The factors to be taken into consideration to determine this would vary depending on the circumstances of the case. In the case of a violent act leading to death, the savagery of the attack would be indicative of the offender’s disregard for human life. (d) In any event, all the circumstances of the case must be weighed including the motive and intention of the offender at the time he committed the offence. While the offender’s regard for human life remains at the forefront of the court’s consideration, other factors such as the offender’s age and intelligence could well tilt the balance.
Central to our inquiry is the manner in which the Respondent had committed the murder. To do this would require revisiting the facts of the case. Keeping in mind the role of an appellate court and that, as far as possible, we should not be disturbing findings of fact, we turn first to the findings of facts concerning the attack as found in the Re-sentencing Judge’s Decision, the CA (Conviction) Decision, and the Trial Judge’s Decision. It is important to note that the Re-sentencing Judge had relied entirely on the Trial Judge’s Decision and the CA (Conviction) Decision where the facts of the case were concerned. At [35] of his decision, the Re-sentencing Judge stated that: As I was not the trial Judge in this case, I relied entirely on Kan J’s judgment… and the Court of Appeal’s judgment… where the findings of fact were concerned. I do not think I should look further into the evidence adduced at the trial and make further conclusions on the facts. There was no clear sequence of events concerning the attack. There was no clear evidence that the convicted person went after the deceased from behind without warning and started hitting him on the head with the piece of wood. There was evidence that a struggle could have taken place first between Galing and the deceased before the convicted person stopped chasing Wu Jun and returned to assault the deceased.
The Re-sentencing Judge’s conclusion that “there was no clear sequence of events concerning the attack” was therefore his interpretation of the findings made by the CA (Conviction). At [8] to [10] of the CA (Conviction) Decision, the court had observed that: 8 The exact chain of events which occurred during the assault is disputed. Galing stated that Jabing led the way in: (a) crossing the road (in order to reach the victims); (b) intimating that the appellants (Galing and Jabing) should rob the victims; (c) picking up the piece of wood; and (d) striking the deceased with it. Further, according to Galing: (a) he told Jabing not to rob the victims but was ignored by Jabing; (b) he assaulted Wu Jun (after the deceased had already been assaulted by Jabing with the piece of wood) because Wu Jun seemed to be about to attack Jabing; (c) he chased Wu Jun for some distance before returning to where Jabing and the deceased were located; (d) Wu Jun returned to the scene of the assault, and Jabing chased Wu Jun away a second time before he (Galing) called Jabing back. 9 Jabing, however, stated that: (a) it was Galing who first crossed the road to approach the victims; (b) Galing had by then already wrapped his belt around his hand; (c) Galing was already about to strike the deceased with the belt in his hands by the time Jabing picked up the piece of wood; (d) he (Jabing) chased after Wu Jun, who had fled the scene of the assault; (e) he (Jabing) gave up the chase and returned to the scene of the assault, where he saw Galing struggling with the deceased; and (f) he (Jabing) then struck the deceased with the piece of wood twice, after which he then fled the scene of the assault, but not before noticing Galing hitting the deceased with his belt and having taken the deceased’s mobile phone. 10 To complicate matters, Wu Jun’s evidence in his statement was that, while walking together with the deceased at the material time, he felt something hard hit him at the back of his head. He ran a few steps forward, turned round, and saw a man with a tanned complexion, wearing a cap, coming towards him in a menacing manner with a clenched fist, whereupon he (Wu Jun) fled the scene. Wu Jun’s evidence was that he could hear the deceased groaning in pain. After running for a while, Wu Jun called for the police on his mobile phone, and subsequently returned to the scene of the assault, where he discovered the deceased lying unconscious and vomiting blood. Wu Jun also noted that the deceased’s mobile phone was missing. At trial, Wu Jun stated that he noticed only one assailant that night, and was unable to say whether he or the deceased was attacked first, how the deceased was attacked or who attacked the deceased. [emphasis in original omitted]
Even though the accounts of the Respondent and Galing are clearly contradictory, neither the CA (Conviction) nor the Trial Judge made findings as to the exact sequence of events. Though unfortunate, this is understandable because at that point in time there was no need for the court to decide conclusively and exactly how the events took place as the charge against the Respondent and Galing was under s 300(c) of the PC. All that was needed for the Prosecution to prove was that the Respondent had intended to inflict the injury which led to the death of the deceased. As the law then stood, whether an accused was found guilty of an offence under s 300(a) or s 300(c), the punishment would be the same, ie the death penalty.
We also note that the Re-sentencing Judge did not make any findings as to the number of times the Respondent had struck the deceased. There are however a number of observations concerning this in the CA (Conviction) Decision. After considering the statements given to the police by Galing, the CA (Conviction) observed at [25] to [27] that: 25 … Although Galing later attempted to question the accuracy of these statements in what appears to be a belated attempt to downplay Jabing's culpability… there was little reason to doubt that they had been correctly recorded. Galing's statements, therefore, were evidence that Jabing struck the deceased more than twice, and with considerable violence. 26 The violent assault on the deceased was corroborated by the medical evidence (summarised at [22]-[29] of the [the Trial Judge’s Decision]), which was that the deceased had sustained life-threatening injuries to his head and brain. There was evidence from the forensic pathologist, Dr Teo Eng Swee ("Dr Teo"), that there could have been more than five blows to the deceased's head, and both Dr Teo and Dr Ho Chi Long (the physician who first attended the deceased at the accident and emergency room) were of the opinion that at least some of the injuries required "very severe" or "huge" blunt force from several blows to be inflicted. Dr Teo added that one of the fractures that resulted in the initial fragmentation of the skull required "severe force". 27 In light of all this evidence, as well as the fact that the severe injuries found on the deceased were concentrated at the region of his head, it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that Jabing intended to, and did, inflict multiple head injuries on the deceased, and that such injuries were certainly not accidental or unintentional. [emphasis added]
The paragraphs above, read together, clearly show that the CA (Conviction) found that the Respondent had struck the deceased on the head with severe force more than two times. Of course, as earlier explained, neither the CA (Conviction) nor the Trial Judge was required to make a specific finding as to the exact number of times the Respondent had struck the deceased on the head. We also note that the Trial Judge (at [24] to [28] of his decision) had made similar observations as to the medical evidence before him, but did not conclusively state the number of strikes the Respondent had inflicted upon the deceased: 24 Pathologist Dr Teo Eng Swee (“Dr Teo”) performed the autopsy on the deceased. In his autopsy report he noted that there were fourteen fractures of the skull with three areas of severe haemorrhage, and that the brain was soft and severely oedematous (swollen). Dr Teo certified the cause of death to be severe head injury. 25 Dr Teo explained that the severe head injury recorded in his autopsy report did not refer to the fractures of the skull. The fractures by themselves were not the fatal injury. The fatal injury was the injury to the brain… 26 Dr Teo was of the opinion that the skull fractures could have been caused by five impacts or more, and that one fracture could have resulted from a blow or a fall on the back of the head, and that the initial fragmentation of the skull required severe force, but when the skull was fractured, the further fractures could be caused by less severe force. 27 The prosecutor showed Dr Teo the belt and buckle that Galing used in the assault, and sought Dr Teo’s assistance to make connections between the buckle and the deceased’s injuries, but Dr Teo was cautious and declined to draw any conclusions. 28 When Dr Teo was informed of Galing’s account in his statement that a severed tree branch about two feet long was used by Jabing to strike at the deceased, Dr Teo agreed that such a weapon was capable of causing the injuries that were found on the deceased’s skull.
The specific issue which we must now address is: do the facts discussed above show that the Respondent acted in a way which demonstrated a blatant disregard for human life in committing the murder? As we see it, two points can be made concerning the injuries that were inflicted upon the deceased.
First, although it is true that the sequence of events is unclear, we find that the Re-sentencing Judge had erred in finding at [40(c)] that: … [t]here was no clear evidence the [Respondent] went after the deceased from behind without warning and started hitting him on the head with the piece of wood … (a) First, on day 9 of the trial: Q:When you picked up the wood, the two male Chinese, did they have---did they have their backs facing you? A:Yes. Q:So if that’s the case, which part of the head did you hit the male Chinese? Which part? A:I cannot remember because at that time I was drunk. (b) Second, on day 10 of the trial: Q:And, Mr Jabing, when you first used the wood as a weapon against the now deceased, you had actually approached him from his rear, isn’t it? A:Yes. Q:And you did not give the deceased any forewarning of your approach, did you? A:Yes. Q:And you did not even utter any threats to the deceased before hitting him, did you? A:Yes, that’s correct. (c) Third, on day 10 of the trial again: Q:Both of you then crept up behind the two Chinese---two male Chinese who were walking abreast of each other on the cement foothpath of the open field. A:Yes I agree. [emphasis added]
Read together, even if it is assumed that there was a struggle between the deceased and Galing, there remains no doubt that the Respondent had admitted to coming from behind and hitting the deceased from the back. In our opinion, the Re-sentencing Judge had therefore erred by finding that there was no clear evidence showing that position. In any case, whether or not there was a struggle beforehand is of little significance to the Respondent’s culpability, given how the injuries were eventually inflicted. First, it must be borne in mind that this alleged struggle was between the deceased and Galing, and not with the Respondent – any claims that the strikes were made “in the heat of the moment” would therefore be unpersuasive. Second, even if some consideration could be given to the fact that the Respondent was returning to “aid” Galing, this might only explain the Respondent’s first strike at best. However, it does little to explain or mitigate the additional strikes the Respondent dealt to the deceased given that after the first strike by the Respondent, the deceased had fallen onto the ground and was not retaliating. After the first blow, there was effectively no more struggle. Why was there a need to rain further blows on the head of the deceased then?
With this, we turn to our second point, which is the number of times the Respondent had struck the deceased. Throughout the proceedings, the Respondent maintained his position that he had struck the deceased only twice – once when he approached the deceased from the back (regardless of whether or not it was in the midst of a struggle), and once after the deceased had fallen down and turned over to the front. However, as mentioned above (at [56]), the CA (Conviction) found that the Respondent had taken more than two strikes at the deceased. In particular, the CA (Conviction) had considered Galing’s statements to the police, where Galing had mentioned that he: … saw [the Respondent] hitting the [deceased] several times and his head cracked open. … I really regretted that [the Respondent] hit him so many times until he died … [emphasis in original] … I gave up the chase and turned back towards Jabing who was hitting the other Chinese with the wood in his hands repeatedly … [emphasis in original]
For completeness, we note that during the trial, Galing changed his evidence to state that he had only seen Jabing strike the deceased once, and sought to explain that his police statements were recorded inaccurately. However, the Trial Judge was of the opinion that this allegation was unsustainable and found that the police officers had accurately recorded Galing’s statements (see [47] of the Trial Judge’s Decision). This was noted and affirmed by the CA (Conviction) (see [25] of the CA (Conviction) Decision).
As discussed above, the CA (Conviction) also took note of the evidence of the pathologist, Dr Teo Eng Swee (“Dr Teo”), who testified that the skull fractures could have been caused by five impacts or more. Similar observations were made by the Trial Judge. However, during the hearing before us, counsel for the Respondent sought to persuade us that those observations were not conclusive of the number of strikes that the Respondent dealt, as it could not be said for certain that all five impacts (or more) were caused by the Respondent, ie, they could have been caused by other forces, such as a fall. As a result, counsel for the Respondent submitted that the benefit of doubt should be given to the Respondent and it should not be readily assumed that the Respondent had rained multiple strikes upon the deceased’s head as submitted by the Prosecution. Between the two positions, counsel for the Respondent was trying to show that the Respondent had only struck the deceased twice or at the most thrice before running away, while the Prosecution was trying to show that the Respondent had mercilessly dealt blow after blow on the deceased even after he had fallen onto the ground.
In our opinion, the exact number of blows that the Respondent inflicted on the deceased and the manner in which they were carried out while certainly relevant to our inquiry are not necessarily decisive. As the Trial Judge and the CA (Conviction) did not have to (and thus did not) conclusively decide on how many blows the Respondent had inflicted on the deceased’s head in coming to their decisions, and neither did the Re-sentencing Judge do so, we will first turn to the evidence surfaced during the trial itself to better understand and reconstruct what exactly happened on that fateful day (bearing in mind the very important point (see especially below at [77] and [78]) that such reconstruction cannot contradict (and, indeed, must be consistent with) the findings of fact already made by the CA (Conviction)).
We start with the observations made by Dr Teo that a “severe force” would be required in order to cause fragmentation of an intact skull. Commenting on the pattern of the fractures as found on the skull of the deceased, Dr Teo identified at least five “separate” groups of fractures which he felt were due to separate impacts. However, he also qualified this by explaining that “once the skull has been fractured, much less severe force is required to cause further fracturing of the skull.” Therefore, Dr Teo said that he could not conclusively rule out the possibility that some fractures might have been caused by either a fall or the belt buckle. He did, however, express the view that the fractures were “unlikely to be due to the belt buckle.”
We also note that Dr Teo had highlighted certain “unusual” injuries on the deceased. These unusual injuries were either “paired” or had “some patterning” to them. Dr Teo later explained that the “paired” markings could be attributable to the pattern on the belt buckle, which was the face of the skull having two eyes and a nose which was slightly hooked. Critically, we further note that one of these unusual injuries was on the right eyebrow, which corresponded to one group of fractures on the skull of the deceased which Dr Teo identified (the other injuries with similar markings were found not on the head but on various other areas of the body of the deceased). Galing had also admitted that after he had returned to the scene, he had struck the deceased (at least) once before taking the deceased’s phone and running away. Describing this, Galing mentioned that: At that time the deceased was sitting down and he wanted to get up. And as he was about to get up, I hit him. After hitting him, I wanted to run away but at that time I saw his handphone. When I saw his handphone, I picked up his handphone and ran off.
We will now consider whether it is possible to determine the number of blows landed by the Respondent on the deceased’s head. Starting first with the objective medical evidence alone, it could be said that, prima facie, the Respondent had landed at least five blows onto the head of the deceased – thus the five separate groups of fractures mentioned by Dr Teo. What raises doubt as to this prima facie position appear to be two matters. First is the allegation that the fall of the deceased onto the ground after the first blow by the Respondent could be the cause of some fractures. Second is the fact that at some later point Galing hit the deceased using his belt buckle.
On the first matter, it stands to reason that if the fall could cause a group of fractures, it would mean that the first blow by the Respondent onto the deceased’s head must have been of such a tremendous force that it literally cracked the skull and weakened it so much so that just a fall could cause a further set of fractures. Even then, on the Respondent’s own evidence, he went on to deliver a second blow to the deceased’s head. What this means, is that even if we are to give the Respondent the benefit of the doubt and find that certain groups of fractures were attributable to a fall, in line with the severity of his first blow, it must follow that the second blow of the Respondent would also have been of considerable force. There was nothing to indicate that he had suddenly turned merciful as to lessen the force of the subsequent blow. Pausing here for a moment, and assuming that the Respondent had only inflicted two blows, the picture which emerges before us is a person, while his intention was only to rob the deceased, did not care at all whether his severe blows to the deceased would cause him to die. This is even more apparent considering that the Respondent had chosen to hit the deceased in an extremely vulnerable region ie his head.
Thereafter, we have the evidence of Galing where he said that he struck the deceased with his belt buckle. It is true that Dr Teo had opined that, once the skull is fractured, a much less severe force is required to cause further fracturing, and therefore, a strike from the belt buckle, after the Respondent had delivered the first severe blow, could very well have caused further fracturing, although he also had some reservations, stating that this would be unlikely (see [64] above). Galing testified that he had struck the deceased only once when he returned to the scene where the deceased and the Respondent were. Assuming that Galing was not involved in a struggle with the Respondent earlier, Galing’s position cannot be true as there were multiple injuries with a pattern (see [65] above) on other parts of the deceased body (not the head) with only one injury with a pattern appearing on the right eyebrow of the Deceased. Taking these into consideration, all it means is that one set of fractures could possibly be attributed to the belt buckle, and even then, we hasten to add that Dr Teo had his reservations as to this possibility (the belt buckle causing a set of fractures). The net result is that, at the very most, one group of fractures would have been caused by the fall, and another group by the belt buckle. That leaves three more group of fractures to account for, leading us to draw the irresistible conclusion that the Respondent had struck the deceased at least three times on the head, which was also the finding of the CA (Conviction) when it held that that the Respondent had struck the deceased on the head more than twice (see [56] above).
Apart from the medical evidence, the only other evidence which suggests that the Respondent had struck the deceased multiple times are the statements of Galing to the police. As observed above, Galing had changed his evidence during oral testimony at the trial to state that he had only seen the Respondent strike the deceased once (which is even contrary to what the Respondent himself admitted).
We would only note that this claim of Galing that the statements were recorded inaccurately was rejected by both the Trial Judge and the CA (Conviction). The Trial Judge had the opportunity to observe Galing during his oral testimony and to draw his conclusions from that, and there is no reason why this court at this re-sentencing stage should refuse to accept that finding. There are obviously a variety of reasons why Galing could have been motivated to change his story at the trial to help the Respondent, and an exercise in speculation would be futile, bearing in mind that even the Respondent admitted that he had struck the deceased on the head twice. In the light of the totality of the evidence, we are satisfied that the Respondent had struck the deceased head with the tree branch with much force at least three times. We say “at least” because we have borne in mind Dr Teo had opined that it was unlikely that the belt buckle could have caused the fractures. More importantly, we have absolutely no doubt that when the Respondent landed the three blows on the head of the deceased, he did not care at all whether the blows would kill the latter.
We have focused thus far on the exact number of blows the Respondent had inflicted on the head of the deceased, although that is not the defining question that needs to be answered. The key question which we must answer is – did the Respondent act in a manner which showed a blatant disregard for human life? While, as we have stated above, that the question as to the number of blows which the Respondent had landed on the head of the deceased is not decisive, it remains very relevant to the key question. The following considerations are critical to our decision: (a) First, we find that the Respondent had approached the deceased from behind, and struck him without any warning. Whether or not this was prefaced with a struggle, between Galing and the deceased, is of little significance to the Respondent’s culpability. After the first blow was inflicted which caused the Respondent to fall to the ground, there was effectively no more struggle. (b) Second, after the deceased fell to the ground after the first blow and then turned around to face upwards, the Respondent struck him once more. It is not disputed that the Respondent was not retaliating. In our judgment, we are of the view that the Respondent continued to hit the deceased at the very least two more times, before leaving the scene. When Galing returned to the scene after chasing Wu Jun he hit the Deceased with his belt buckle. (c) In any case, even if the Respondent’s assertion that he had only struck the deceased twice is to be believed and accepted, then the force he exerted in the two blows must have been so great as to cause fracturing of such severity and magnitude, so much so that a fall, or a strike with Galing’s belt buckle, could have caused further fracturing.
In our judgment, and consistent with the finding of CA (Conviction), the Respondent had struck the deceased on the head not once, but at least three times altogether. Even if the Respondent did not intend to hit the deceased on his head the first time when the Respondent approached the deceased from the back (we would only add that we cannot see how that could be the case since he approached the deceased stealthily from the back and there was no evidence that the deceased had dodged), we cannot accept that, after the deceased fell and then turned round facing upwards, the Respondent likewise was unaware that he was going to hit the head of the deceased. Given the manner in which the attack was carried out, this was not a case where the Respondent had merely hoped to disable his victim in order to rob him of his belongings. Neither was this a case where the injuries were sustained in the course of a fight or a struggle. This was a case where even after the deceased was no longer retaliating (after the first blow), the Respondent went on to strike the deceased an additional number of times, completely unnecessary given that his initial intention was merely to rob him. In light of the sheer savagery and brutality exhibited by the Respondent, we are completely satisfied that the Respondent exhibited a blatant disregard for human life in the way he attacked the deceased.
At [40(c)] of his decision, the Re-sentencing Judge observed that the Respondent was relatively young, being 24 years of age, at the time of the offence. The Re-sentencing Judge also rightly observed that the Respondent was not as young as the convicted person in Fabian (who was 18 years of age). In our opinion, the Respondent’s age (at 24 and not 18 as the offender in Fabian) is at best a neutral factor, and does little to change the gravity of the case. The Re-sentencing Judge had also observed (at [40(a)] of his decision) that the Respondent’s choice and use of the piece of wood was “opportunistic and improvisational”, citing the CA (Conviction) Decision at [35(b)]. Likewise, we found this to be at best a neutral factor, given the way and manner the attack was eventually carried out. The fact that the choice of weapon happened to be opportunistic pales in comparison with the savage and callous manner in which the Respondent had wielded it.
The difference in views between the majority and the minority is a matter of fact and not of law. As a matter of law, there is a concurrence in views on the test that is to be employed in determining when the death penalty should be imposed. It is common ground, however, that the disagreement is one of fact. Particularly, we note that the minority found that there was insufficient evidence to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the Respondent had hit the deceased on the head at least three or more times, or that the Respondent had hit the deceased with such huge force as to cause most of the fractures in the deceased’s skull. Given this insufficiency, the minority was of the opinion that therefore, the threshold of the test (ie, whether the Respondent had acted in a way which exhibits viciousness or a blatant disregard for human life), had not been crossed.
In order to reach their conclusion, the minority undertook an extensive review of the evidence that had surfaced during the very first trial. That being so, we emphasise that since this appeal arises from a re-sentencing proceeding pursuant to the PCAA, the first port of call must be the CA (Conviction) Decision. The findings of fact made by that court should not be revisited in the present proceedings. Indeed (and for the avoidance of doubt), all the issues as well as concerns raised by the minority were also raised by counsel during the hearing before the CA (Conviction) and were ruled upon by that court. We wish to highlight that at the hearing before CA (Conviction), Jabing’s counsel had submitted, inter alia, the following points: (a) “…there was no way that [Jabing] could have caused the 14 or so fractures which Dr Teo testified about”; (b) “For the 14 fractures to happen dispersed over the head of the deceased there must have been several strikes on the deceased’s head and definitely more than two”; (c) “…there is a strong possibility that Galing did not only use the belt buckle but also the piece of wood which Jabing had discarded when fleeing the scene”; (d) “…there is a doubt that it was [Jabing] who caused those injuries which resulted in the death of the deceased.”
What this court ought to be concerned about in the present proceeding is whether based on those findings of fact, the discretion ought (or ought not) to be exercised in favour of the Respondent under the (amended) s 302(2) brought about by the PCAA.
Viewed in this light, in this proceeding, this court should only supplement the findings of the CA (Conviction) with further findings of fact to the extent – and only to the extent – that the CA (Conviction) had been silent and/or ambiguous on matters that are germane to the resolution of the present appeal. As stated above, the CA (Conviction) had accepted Galing’s statements and found “that Jabing struck the deceased more than twice, and with considerable violence” [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]. We would reiterate that Galing’s attempt to question the accuracy of his statements at trial was rejected by both the Trial Judge and the CA (Conviction). Having scrutinised the evidence, the CA (Conviction) concluded (at [27]) that: In light of all this evidence, as well as the fact that the severe injuries found on the deceased were concentrated at the region of his head, it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that Jabing intended to, and did, inflictmultiple head injurieson the deceased, and that such injuries were certainly not accidental or unintentional. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
With the greatest respect, the minority have embarked on a total reconsideration of all the findings of fact made by the CA (Conviction); they have, in effect, not only re-opened as well as questioned those findings but also sought to reverse them. Indeed, if the analysis in these judgments is taken to its logical conclusion, there might be at least a strong case for finding that the Respondent ought not to have even been convicted under s 300(c) in the first place. Even if we were to accept the position that it was unclear as to how many times the Respondent had struck the head of the deceased, what is vitally important to bear in mind is that what we have here was a completely shattered skull. Bearing in mind the fact that the alleged intention of the Respondent and Galing was merely to rob the deceased, what the Respondent did underscores the savagery of the attack which was characterised by needless violence that went well beyond the pale.
Returning to our position, as we have observed, at the very least, the Respondent had chosen to strike the deceased with such immense force at an extremely vulnerable region, so much so that a simple fall or a strike from a buckle could have led to further shattering. To us, this alone, already shows the Respondent’s complete disregard of human life. To say that the fall (after the first blow by the Respondent) and the hit by Jabing on the deceased’s right eyebrow with the use of the buckle could have caused further fractures and thus mitigated the viciousness of the attack is, with respect, a non-plus to us. The evidence is clear – severe force, from more than two blows, had caused the kind of fractures which were found on the head of the deceased.
The result of the amendments to the mandatory death penalty regime is that, in certain circumstances, it is the court who is now the final arbiter of whether an offender is deserving of the ultimate penalty. The punishment of death is an unusually severe punishment in its finality and enormity. The irrevocability of this punishment demands that in the exercise of this discretion, the court should be guided by clear and practicable principles in order to prevent any form of capriciousness and arbitrariness.
At the same time, we recognise that the nature of the crime is such that it does not lend itself to a situation where the court could lay down a set of specific objective factors which are determinative. By its very nature, what would constitute a blatant disregard of human life would be very fact-sensitive. The punishment of a crime must be proportionate to the gravity of the crime.
In our judgment, the punishment of death will be appropriate when the offender had committed the murder in a manner which clearly demonstrates a blatant disregard for the sanctity of human life. In this appeal, the Respondent had struck the deceased in a vulnerable region (the head). We find (as did the CA (Conviction) in dismissing his appeal against conviction) that the Respondent had struck at the deceased’s head at least three times. Although it is impossible to reconstruct exactly what had occurred on that fateful day, given the evidence before us, we are inclined to think that the Respondent had struck the deceased more times than that.
While the possibility of additional injuries being caused by another force cannot be conclusively ruled out (for example, by the belt buckle of Galing or a fall), in our judgment, the medical evidence clearly shows that the fatal blows are attributable to the Respondent. The sheer savagery and brutality displayed by the Respondent shows that during the course of the attack, the Respondent just simply could not care less as to whether the deceased would survive although his intention at the time was only to rob. He did not stop attacking the deceased even after the latter was incapacitated and was no more in a position to respond after the first blow. His actions were utterly vicious.
In the result, we find that the Respondent had shown a blatant disregard for human life. Therefore, we allow the Prosecution’s appeal and impose the death penalty on the Respondent.