The plaintiff, Encus International Pte Ltd (“the Company”), is a company in liquidation. By this application, it seeks to recover a valuable asset, namely, shares in another company. The Company seeks a declaration that the transfer of these shares to the first defendant has to be annulled as an unfair preference or as a transaction at an undervalue or because it was carried out in breach of the anti-deprivation principle. This Agreement constitutes the whole agreement between the Parties and supersedes any previous agreements or arrangements between them relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and it is expressly declared that no variations of this Agreement shall be effective unless made in writing and executed by the Parties. [emphasis added] … the “entire agreement” clauses in the M&A Deed and the New Bonus Deed … state that any previous understanding or agreement relating to the subject matter of the M&A Deed/New Bonus Deed has been replaced by the M&A Deed/New Bonus Deed and has no further effect. If an overarching agreement did exist which contained a term relating to the acquisition of other childcare centres or to the payment of bonus, then that agreement would have ceased to have any effect when, respectively, the M&A Deed and the New Bonus Deed were concluded. [emphasis added] The investors will invest S$8.8 million (some of which has already been extended as loans) for 35,200,000 ordinary shares of Encus at an issue price of 25 cents per share. The shares of DKE owned by Encus will serve as security for the investment and will be surrendered to the investors if the consolidated net profit before tax of Encus Singapore and Encus Shanghai (excluding DKE) is negative in 2013. In the alternative, if the Court finds that the CLA made no reference to the Security Term, the Defendants submit that the effect of [the] Entire Agreement Clause was to confine the CLA to the subject-matter of the Loan and its conversion. The CLA did not supersede the Master Agreement. The Master Agreement remained alive … [emphasis added] The mere creation of a security over a company’s assets does not deplete them and does not come within the paragraph [relating to undervalued transactions]. By charging its assets the company appropriates them to meet the liabilities due to the secured creditor and adversely affects the rights of other creditors in the event of insolvency. But it does not deplete its assets or diminish their value. … It does not follow from this [Millet J’s holding] that a transaction involving the grant of security can never amount to a transaction for no consideration. In my judgment, it is no different from any other transaction in that respect. … [emphasis added] 94 … not all gaps in a contract are “true” gaps in the sense that they can be remedied by the implication of a term. There are at least three ways in which a gap could arise: (a) the parties did not contemplate the issue at all and so left a gap; (b) the parties contemplated the issue but chose not to provide a term for it because they mistakenly thought that the express terms of the contract had adequately addressed it; and (c) the parties contemplated the issue but chose not to provide any term for it because they could not agree on a solution. 95 In our view, scenario (a) is the only instance where it would be appropriate for the court to even consider if it will imply a term into the parties’ contract … [emphasis added] 10. … Pursuant to the Term Sheet, the DKE Shares will serve as security for the investment by way of a Share Charge in favour of the New Investors [ie, the Investors]. The New Investors may enforce the share charge and the DKE Shares will be transferred to the New Investors in the event that the consolidated net profit before tax of the Company and Encus International Shanghai Co., Ltd (Encus Shanghai) (excluding DKE) is negative in 2013.I … [emphasis added] All of the assets of the company as at that time in order to determine the extent to which those assets were liquid or were realisable within a timeframe that would allow each of the debts to be paid as and when it became payable. [emphasis added] … The relevant things done by the Ledingham-Smiths were the agreement of 21 January 1990 and the three payments of £4,000. The agreement could not of itself produce a preference in fact though its performance might. Thus the relevant things done must be the actual payments on 30 January, 5 February and 12 February. … [emphasis added] … payment of a debt which does not exceed the amount due is not a transaction at an undervalue, as the net asset position is unchanged, whilst to the extent that the payment exceeds what is due to the creditor, he does not receive it qua creditor and his liability, if any, arises under [the undervalue transaction provisions], not [the unfair preference provisions].