This dispute concerns a property located at 47 Hillview Avenue #08-04, Singapore 669614 (“the Property”), purchased for $880,440 and registered solely in the defendant’s name. The plaintiff, who is the defendant’s elder brother, claims that he is entitled to an equal share in the Property with the defendant as tenants-in-common, on the basis that the plaintiff contributed $200,000 to the purchase price. The defendant, on the other hand, alleges that the $200,000 was a loan made to him in order to assist him to purchase the Property. The defendant claims that he repaid the loan, and that additionally he lent a further $120,000 to the plaintiff. The defendant counterclaims for repayment of this further sum. MEMORANDUM OF LOAN I, Chong Kok Leong hereby acknowledge that Cheong Woon Weng (Nric No. [xxx]) will be contributing the sum of S$200,000 towards the purchase of the property known as Block 47 Hillview Avenue, #08-04 Singapore (hereinafter called “the Property”) which is being purchased by me from the Developers. This sum of money shall be paid towards the first 20% deposit in respect of the sale and purchase of the property. I confirm that the said money is a friendly loan from him to me, and which I shall repay when the Property is sold. DATED 28/7/2000 Signed by   )Cheong Kok Leong  )In the presence of  ) This acknowledgement is collateral to the memorandum of loan dated 28/7/2000 signed by Cheong Kok Leong in favour of Cheong Woon Weng, whereby Cheong Kok Leong acknowledges a contribution of S$200,000 towards the purchase price of the Property known as Blk 47 Hillview Avenue, #08-04 Hillington Green, Singapore (hereinafter called “the Property”). In consideration of the said contribution, the parties hereto acknowledge that Cheong Woon Weng has a share in the Property in the proportion of the amount of the contribution vis-à-vis the purchase price of $880,440.00. In the event that the Property is sold, Cheong Woon Weng shall be entitled to half a share in the net profits (ie profits less taxes, interest, reasonable expenses etc), or loss, as the case may be. Cheong Kok Leong shall not sell the property unless Cheong Woon Weng has agreed, in writing that he agrees with the sale at the price agreed. This share in the Property is not in addition to Cheong Woon Weng’s right to repayment of his contribution towards the purchase price. Dated this the 28th day of July 2000.  -----------------------------------Signed by Cheong Kok Leong  -----------------------------------Signed by Cheong Woon Weng If the court is satisfied that the parties intended to embody their entire agreement in a written contract, no extrinsic evidence is admissible to contradict, vary, add to, or subtract from its terms (see ss 93–94 of the Evidence Act). In determining whether the parties so intended, our courts may look at extrinsic evidence and apply the normal objective test, subject to a rebuttable presumption that a contract which is complete on its face was intended to contain all the terms of the parties’ agreement … In other words, where a contract is complete on its face, the language of the contract constitutes prima facie proof of the parties’ intentions. [emphasis added]