This was an appeal by the Prosecution against the sentence imposed on the respondent, Mr Ong Chee Heng (“the Respondent”), following his conviction on a charge for voluntarily causing hurt under s 323 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”). The Respondent and his co-accused were involved in an altercation in a smoking room at a pub. The victim was a patron at the pub and he was beaten so severely that there was a real possibility that he would suffer permanent blindness in his right eye. The district judge (“the DJ”) sentenced the Respondent’s co-accused, who was the primary assailant, to 20 weeks’ imprisonment but merely imposed a fine of $4,000 on the Respondent. The Prosecution appealed against the imposition of a fine on the Respondent, arguing that a custodial sentence ought to have been imposed on the Respondent in all the circumstances of the case.   You … are charged that you, on the 2 September 2015, at or about 1.20 a.m., at the Talk Cock Sing Song Pub, located at No. 244 Upper Thomson Road, Singapore, did voluntarily cause hurt to one Song Chee Kiong, Male / 43 years old, to wit, by punching the said Song Chee Kiong on his face, and you have thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 323 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed). You, are charged that you, on the 2 September 2015, at or about 1.21 a.m., at the Talk Cock Sing Song Pub, located at No. 244 Upper Thomson Road, Singapore, did voluntarily cause hurt to one Song Chee Kong, Male / 43 years old, to wit, by punching the said Song Chee Kiong on his right eye, causing him to suffer permanent damage to the eye structures (retinal tear with retinal and cilio-chorodial detachment), and you have thereby committed an offence punishable under section 323 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed). … Group offences generally result in greater harm. Another significant factor is that the victim is likely to be in greater fear in cases where physical intimidation is exerted. Further, group pressure to perpetuate such offences may add to their persistency, and group dynamics necessarily imply greater harm or damage: see Professor Andrew Ashworth in Sentencing and Criminal Justice (Cambridge University Press, 2005, 4th Ed) (“Sentencing and Criminal Justice”) at p 157. … … it also appears that significant weight is ordinarily placed on the fact that an accused person acted as part of a group. Here I would like to stress that there are group offences and there are group offences. And within each group of offenders there might well be varying degrees of culpability. It would be incorrect to invariably assume that a person who offends as part of a group is always more culpable than another person who offends on his own. Each case must turn on a close examination of its facts, for which a bland recitation of general principles is no substitute. [emphasis added]