Mr Suyambu Suman (“Suman”) was an employee of the appellant company, MW Group Pte Ltd. He tragically met his demise after being electrocuted while conducting high voltage testing and calibration of an Arc Reflection System (“ARS”) machine at his employer’s workplace. Consequently, the appellant was charged under s 12(1), read with s 20 and punishable under s 50(b) of the Workplace Safety and Health Act (Cap 354A, 2009 Rev Ed) (“WSHA”) for failing to take reasonably practicable measures to ensure the safety and health of its employees at its workplace.
The appellant claimed trial to the charge. It was convicted and sentenced to a fine of $200,000. The grounds of decision of the District Judge below (the “Judge”) is reported at Public Prosecutor v MW Group Pte Ltd [2018] SGDC 110 (the “GD”). The appellant subsequently appealed against both its conviction and sentence.
Having heard the submissions made by the Prosecution and Mr Mark Wheeler (“Wheeler”), the Managing Director and corporate representative of the appellant for these criminal proceedings, I did not think that the Judge had convicted the appellant against the weight of the evidence. Accordingly, I dismissed the appeal against conviction at the hearing of this appeal on 19 October 2018. Therefore, the sole matter remaining for my consideration involves the appellant’s appeal against sentence, which forms the subject matter of this reserved judgment.
This appeal gives me the opportunity to revisit the existing sentencing benchmarks for offences involving a breach of s 12 of the WSHA. These benchmarks were laid down by See Kee Oon JC (as he then was) in Public Prosecutor v GS Engineering & Construction Corp [2017] 3 SLR 682 (“GS Engineering”) at [70]. Having carefully considered the sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering, I must respectfully disagree in part with See JC’s benchmarks. Accordingly, I decline to apply the benchmarks in GS Engineering to the present case. 
As will be elaborated on in further detail below, I have instead formulated a set of revised sentencing benchmarks which are based on the sentencing framework that I had developed in my recent decision in Nurun Novi Saydur Rahman v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2018] SGHC 236 (“Nurun”). Applying these revised sentencing benchmarks to the present case, I allow the appellant’s appeal against sentence and impose a fine of $160,000 instead.
Except for what I have stated at [16], I broadly agree with the Judge’s findings of fact which can be found in the GD. Therefore, I shall only reproduce the salient facts which are necessary for an appreciation of the issues relating to sentence in this appeal.
In order to better understand how the fatal accident occurred, I consider it helpful to first describe how the testing and calibration of the ARS machine was to take place.
The ARS machine is used for the detection of faults in cables by sending high voltage electrical pulses into the cables. It can rapidly charge up to 1,280 joules at up to 16 kilovolts (“kV”). By way of comparison, the standard voltage used in households in Singapore is 220V. A pictorial representation of the set up for the testing and calibration of the ARS machine is shown below: 
The person controlling the ARS machine would set the machine to a certain voltage level. Another person would then have to hold the handle of the high voltage probe and touch the tip of the probe to the metallic part at the end of the output cable from the ARS machine. The high voltage probe is in turn connected to a multimeter which will display the voltage measured. The voltage as measured by the multimeter when multiplied by a certain fixed factor, which is a characteristic of the high voltage probe, will provide the value of the voltage actually emanating from the ARS machine. The voltage measurements will then be recorded, and the process is subsequently repeated with the ARS machine set to increasing levels of voltage.
On 7 November 2013, Wheeler instructed Suman to conduct testing and calibration of the ARS machine. In turn, Suman asked three of his colleagues to assist him, namely Mr Gomathi Nayagam Lakshmi Kanthan (“Lakshmi”), Mr Kuberan Nandhakumar (“Nandha”) and Mr Murugesan Senthil (“Senthil”). 
The testing and calibration was conducted inside the laboratory located at 196 Pandan Loop, #02-21, which is the workplace of the appellant. Suman prepared for the testing of the ARS machine by setting up the equipment according to the diagram as shown at [8] above. Suman then instructed Lakshmi to power up the ARS machine and then set the machine to the desired voltage level for testing. He instructed Senthil to record the readings from the multimeter while Nandha was instructed to be on standby. Suman held the handle of the high voltage probe with his left hand, and the output cable from the ARS machine with his right hand. The tip of the high voltage probe was securely attached to a metallic vise grip protruding from the end of the output cable.
Suman and his three colleagues then began the testing and calibration of the ARS machine, starting with a voltage level of 2kV and gradually working their way to higher voltage levels. When the voltage of the ARS machine was set to 12kV, Nandha noticed a spark emanating from the metallic vise grip. At this point, Suman fell backwards and became unconscious. He was conveyed to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries that same day. The certified cause of death was consistent with electrocution.
The Judge found that there was a high risk of electrocution in conducting the high voltage testing and calibration, which the appellant’s employees were all well aware of. Despite this, the appellant had failed to take reasonably practicable measures in order to avert this risk of electrocution. 
First, there had been no proper risk assessments conducted for the activity of high voltage testing and calibration. When officers from the Ministry of Manpower (“MOM”) first visited the appellant’s premises on 16 April 2013, the appellant’s representative at the time was not able to produce any risk assessment forms for electrical testing within the company. Even the risk assessment conducted by the appellant on 25 April 2013 in response to the visit from the MOM officers was unsatisfactory. That risk assessment form, which was dated 25 April 2013, showed that for the work activity of “calibration”, the only risk identified was that of “falling objects” and there was no mention of electrocution. The appellant’s employee who had signed off on this risk assessment form admitted to not knowing if the activity referred to on the form was high or low voltage calibration. The MOM officer who inspected the appellant’s premises a day after the accident occurred testified that the risk assessment for the calibration works was not established, conducted and implemented. Wheeler conceded that there were no risk assessments conducted for the ARS machine when it arrived at the appellant’s workplace on three previous occasions for testing and calibration.
Second, the appellant had failed to put in place safe work procedures to ensure that the testing and calibration of the ARS machine was carried out in a safe manner. The appellant could not adduce any evidence of safe work procedures it had developed for the calibration of the ARS machine.  An officer from the Energy Market Authority who conducted an investigation of the workplace after the accident testified that one reasonably practicable measure that could have been taken would be to have proper test fixtures to hold the output cable in place during the calibration process. Without the test fixture, the person operating the probe had to physically hold onto the output cable. This was dangerous because the output cable would be left dangling and could accidentally come into contact with the person holding the cable. Further, a safe working distance would not be maintained between the holder of the probe and the live output cable. Given the high voltages at which the testing was conducted, even the air between the output cable and the person holding it could become a conductor which would enable the current to pass from the output cable and into the person’s body, thereby leading to electrocution. Hence, a test fixture was necessary as it could have prevented the output cable from swinging, and would also have allowed the person holding the high voltage probe to maintain a safe distance from the output cable. Up to this point, I agree with the Judge’s findings.
 The Judge also noted that a stand made of steel was actually available, but it was not used during the calibration. The Judge stated that if the appellant had developed a risk assessment for the calibration, “the use of a stand would have been stated as a mitigating factor”. I disagree with the Judge that (a) the steel stand that was available in the workshop should be used; and (b) that the use of this stand would have been a mitigating factor to reduce the risk associated with the calibration.
Wheeler had rightly explained at the hearing that using the steel stand might have made matters worse, given that the entire stand is made of metal and would therefore have been fully charged if the live output cable had been attached to it. I agree with Wheeler that attaching the vise grip to a metal stand would have charged the whole metal stand to the same high voltage as that on the metal vise grip which was attached to the end of the output cable of the ARS machine. Making a much larger exposed metal area (ie, the metal stand) charged to a high voltage would cause the work area to be much more dangerous to persons present at the workplace in the vicinity of the large exposed metal area. To increase safety, exposed areas with high voltage should instead be minimised as much as possible and not increased. As a safety measure, employees should therefore be told not to use the metal stand available in the work place and not to attach the vise grip to any metal stand for any high voltage testing and calibration.
In my view, the appellant should have provided a non-electrically conductive stand (eg, one made of rubber or some other non-electrically conductive material) to which the vise grip could be attached in order to ensure and facilitate the safe high voltage testing and calibration of the ARS machine. The appellant had failed to provide an essential piece of equipment to its employees to enable them to carry out such high voltage testing and calibration safely. This would have contributed to the appellant’s failure to ensure safe work procedures.
Ultimately, the Judge rightly concluded that the appellant’s failure to ensure that safe work procedures were adopted during the testing and calibration of the ARS machine resulted in Suman being electrocuted which led to his death.
The Judge applied the sentencing framework in GS Engineering to determine the appropriate starting point sentence based on two principal factors, namely (a) the culpability of the offender and (b) the harm that could potentially have resulted. 
The Judge found that the potential for harm in the present case was “high”, given that death could result from the risk of electrocution and there were no measures taken to mitigate this risk. The Judge found that the culpability of the appellant was “medium”, on the basis that the appellant had only conducted a generic risk assessment for “electrical testing” prior to the accident, and did not put in place any safe work procedure for the testing and calibration of the ARS machine. The appellant had allowed its employees to work in a dangerous environment where the occurrence of an accident was imminent. Given that the potential for harm was “high” and the culpability of the appellant was “medium”, the Judge found that the starting point sentence should be a fine of around $230,000.
The Judge then went on to consider the aggravating and mitigating factors. She found that an aggravating factor was the serious actual harm which resulted in death, and that the breaches were a significant cause of the death that resulted. She also considered that this was the appellant’s first offence since they began operations 25 years ago, that there was only one death as compared to two in GS Engineering, and that even though the appellant had claimed trial, the trial was not unduly protracted and the appellant had been cooperative in the course of investigations. Balancing the aggravating and mitigating factors, she reduced the fine slightly from the starting point sentence and imposed a fine of $200,000.
The appellant raises the following grounds in its petition of appeal in respect of its appeal against sentence: (a) The present case is factually different from GS Engineering. GS Engineering involved two fatalities whereas the present case only involved one. The offender in GS Engineering had “admitted guilt” while the appellant did not because it believed it “acted reasonably and practicably [in] adopting work health and safety ethics”. The victims in GS Engineering were untrained and unskilled workers whereas Suman, the deceased, in the present case was a “highly qualified” deputy manager. (b) In the list of nine aggravating factors cited in GS Engineering at [77], the appellant has shown the absence of eight of these aggravating factors. (c) In the list of six mitigating factors cited in GS Engineering at [77], the appellant has shown the presence of five of these mitigating factors. The mitigating factors in the appellant’s favour are: (i) the appellant had voluntarily taken steps to remedy the problem; (ii) the appellant had provided a high level of cooperation with the authorities beyond that which is normally expected; (iii) there was self-reporting, co-operation and acceptance of responsibility; (iv) it had good health and safety records; and (v) it had effective health and safety procedures in place. (d) Given the absence of aggravating factors and the presence of mitigating factors, the appellant should be in the “low to zero range” in terms of culpability and potential for harm.
In response, the Prosecution made the following points:  (a) The appellant is mistaken as to the proper application of the sentencing framework in GS Engineering. The culpability and potential harm caused by the offender in the first stage of the inquiry should be assessed separately from the aggravating and mitigating factors.  (b) The Judge had considered all the relevant factors, and was correct to find that the potential for harm was “high” and the culpability of the appellant was “medium”.  (c) The Judge was correct to choose a starting point sentence of $230,000, which is on the higher end of the stipulated range as set out in GS Engineering at [70], for two reasons. First, the appellant did not even deem it necessary to conduct proper risk assessments and implement a set of safe work procedures, despite knowing that there was a clear risk of electrocution that could lead to death. Second, the breaches committed by the appellant were systemic, which is evidenced by the lack of proper risk assessments and safe work procedures for prior instances when the ARS machine underwent calibration at the appellant’s workplace. (d) The appellant’s claim that it had voluntarily taken steps to remedy the problem should be approached with caution, given that it had not adduced proper evidence to prove that risk assessments were indeed conducted after the accident and specifically in relation to the calibration of the ARS machine.
The structure for my determination of this appeal is as follows: I first consider the existing sentencing benchmarks for offences under s 12(1) of the WSHA as set out in GS Engineering, and state the reasons why I disagree with it in part. Thereafter, I set out my revised sentencing benchmarks, and explain the considerations behind the formulation of these benchmarks. Finally, I apply the revised sentencing benchmarks to the facts of the present case to determine if the sentence imposed by the Judge is manifestly excessive. First stage of the inquiry: determining the indicative starting sentence
I would state at the outset that I agree broadly with the two-stage framework adopted by See JC in GS Engineering. In the first stage of the inquiry, the sentencing judge determines the indicative starting point sentence based on two factual elements, namely, the potential harm caused by the offence, and the culpability of the offender (“the principal factual elements”). Potential harm, as opposed to actual harm, is used as a determinant of the indicative starting sentence because s 12(1) of the WSHA criminalises the creation of the risk of harm rather than actual harm (See GS Engineering at [65]; Nurun at [80]). In the second stage of the inquiry, the sentencing judge calibrates the starting point sentence derived in the first stage based on the presence of any aggravating or mitigating factors. This includes the actual harm that is caused, as will be elaborated on in further detail below. Indeed, I had adopted this same sentencing framework in Nurun (at [79]).
I set out below a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court can consider in assessing the level of potential harm caused by an offender (GS Engineering at [65]; Nurun at [86]): (a) the seriousness of the harm risked; (b) the likelihood of that harm arising; and (c) the number of people likely to be exposed to the risk of that harm.
These are a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court can consider in assessing the culpability of an offender (GS Engineering at [64]; Nurun at [87]): (a) the number of breaches or failures in the case; (b) the nature of the breaches; (c) the seriousness of the breaches – whether they were a minor departure from the established procedure or whether they were a complete disregard of the procedures; (d) whether the breaches were systemic or whether they were part of an isolated incident; and (e) whether the breaches were intentional, rash or negligent.
However, where I must respectfully depart from the decision in GS Engineering is in the sentencing benchmarks which have been set out in tabular form (at [70]). For ease of reference, I reproduce the table below: 
As can be seen from the table above, there are “gaps” at certain points in the sentencing benchmarks which lead to a jump in the indicative starting point sentences when one moves from low to medium, and from medium to high potential for harm. This is the same problem that I had alluded to in Nurun at [89].  To illustrate, let us take the example of a hypothetical offender whose culpability is fixed at “low”. As the potential for harm of this hypothetical offender increases slightly from the top-most end of the “low” category to the bottom-most end of the “medium” category, there is a sudden jump in the starting point fines to be imposed, from $20,000 to $60,000. As the potential for harm further increases slightly from the top-most end of the “medium” range to the bottom-most end of the “high” range, there is another jump from $80,000 to $100,000. In my view, there are two reasons for why there should not be such gaps in the sentencing benchmarks.
First, “such a gap arbitrarily restricts the sentencing court from providing certain sentences as [a] starting point.” (Nurun at [89]). To illustrate, let us assume that we have a hypothetical offender who has low culpability, and between low to medium potential for harm. Based on the sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering, a sentencing judge is precluded from adopting a starting point sentence of anywhere between a $20,000 fine and a $60,000 fine. Therefore, there is a concern that the sentencing range provided by the law is not fully utilised. Indeed, this was a concern that See JC himself had explicitly sought to address in GS Engineering (at [58]).
Second, such gaps in the sentencing benchmarks are inconsistent with the general principle that sentences should be proportional to the severity of the criminal conduct. Accordingly, an offence which is marginally more severe than a baseline case should attract a marginally higher sentence, and not one that is disproportionately or significantly higher. However, as can be seen from the sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering, there is a significantly large increase in sentence (ie, $40,000 fine) even though the potential for harm has increased very slightly (ie, from the top-most end of the “low” category to the bottom-most end of the “medium” category). 
Having identified the reasons why I disagree with the sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering, I now proceed to set out my revised sentencing benchmarks. I will first state the considerations I had in formulating these revised sentencing benchmarks (at [34] to [38]), followed by the methodology that I adopt in arriving at the relevant figures (at [39] to [49] before setting out the benchmarks in the form of a table (at [50]). I should emphasise that a sentencing judge need only consider the table at [50] to determine the indicative starting sentence for a notional offender.
In formulating a set of revised sentencing benchmarks for offences under s 12(1) of the WSHA, I have to keep in mind three key considerations. First, the indicative starting point sentences should be smoothly and continuously distributed across the entire spectrum of severity of the criminal conduct. In other words, the sentences should smoothly and continuously increase in each of these three scenarios: (a) when culpability remains constant but potential for harm increases, (b) when potential for harm remains constant but culpability increases, and (c) when both potential for harm and culpability increase simultaneously. The factual elements of potential for harm and culpability are assumed to be continuous and independent variables that each separately and independently affect the sentence. By ensuring that the sentences increase smoothly, this resolves the problem in relation to the gaps in the range of indicative starting sentences that is present in GS Engineering.
Second, greater weight should be given to the potential of harm element in determining the indicative starting point sentence, as opposed to according equal weights to both principal factual elements. This means that an increase in the potential harm of an offender should increase the indicative starting point sentence by a greater amount than an increase in the culpability of the offender by the same amount. I have explained why I take this view in Nurun (at [90]): This is an acknowledgement to the policy behind the WSHA which seeks to deter risk-taking behaviour and give meaningful penalties where there are severe lapses … . An unsafe act done negligently in a workplace and with a low degree of culpability but yet exposes many persons to the risk of very serious injuries should be regarded as far more serious and therefore calls for much greater deterrence than an unsafe act done similarly negligently but with a high degree of culpability and which exposes very few persons to the risk of only minor injuries.
In my view, this consideration should hold with equal force to the present case, even though it involves a different offence under the WSHA. Ultimately, the WSHA as a whole was enacted to deter risk-taking behaviour and to ensure a safe working environment (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report (17 January 2006), Vol 80 at cols 2206 and 2214–2216 (Dr Ng Eng Hen, Minister for Manpower)). Therefore, the sentences should be structured such that parties are incentivised to take greater caution when the potential for harm is higher.
Indeed, See JC’s sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering also seem to have implicitly accounted for greater weight to be given to potential for harm as opposed to culpability (at [70], reproduced in this judgment at [29]). To illustrate, let us take the case of an offender with low culpability and where the circumstances disclose a low potential for harm as a reference point. Applying the sentencing benchmarks in GS Engineering, we see that a shift leftward towards medium culpability results in a $20,000 increase in the maximum indicative starting sentence. In comparison, a shift upward towards medium potential for harm results in a $60,000 increase in the maximum indicative starting sentence. Therefore, for the same increase of potential harm and culpability from low to medium, we see that potential for harm has a greater impact on the sentence.
The third consideration is that when either culpability or harm is zero, the corresponding sentence should necessarily also be zero. This must be true because when there is no culpability or potential for harm, there is no offence that is disclosed under s 12(1) of the WSHA.
With these three considerations in mind, I plotted the following graph: