A little over two centuries since the founding of modern Singapore by the British and slightly over half a century since its establishment as an independent nation state, a profound and momentous change has been made to the Singapore court system. On 2 January 2021, the Appellate Division of the High Court (“the AD”) was established pursuant to the coming into force of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019 (Act 40 of 2019) (“SCJA(A)”). This introduced wide-ranging amendments into the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”). 
As a result of this, Singapore now has a court which in some respects is akin to an intermediate appellate court. The Court of Appeal remains the apex court whilst the AD is situated between the Court of Appeal on the one hand and the General Division of the High Court (“Gen Div”) on the other. The Gen Div was formerly known as “the High Court of Singapore” and all legally eligible appeals from it would be heard by the Court of Appeal. At the time of the writing of this judgment, the AD has heard its first appeal case on 28 May 2021, with six more distinct cases scheduled for hearing during the week commencing 12 July 2021.
The reasons for the establishment of the AD have both quantitative as well as qualitative roots, which (as we shall see in a moment) are intertwined and interact to accomplish the wider mission of enhancing the administration of justice in Singapore as well as developing Singapore law in a manner that is indigenously strong yet international in outlook. 
From a quantitative perspective, the restructuring of the Singapore court system in the manner just described is both necessary and timely. In particular, the Court of Appeal has experienced an enormous growth in its caseload for both criminal as well as civil matters. For example, in 2013, 314 civil and criminal matters were filed in the Court of Appeal; by 2018 (a mere five years later), the number had increased by 56% to 490. Just as importantly (and from a qualitative perspective), the cases that have come before the Court of Appeal have become increasingly complex. The combination of these factors has stretched the resources of the Court of Appeal. Interim measures such as increasing the number of sitting days for the Court of Appeal, whilst effective in the short term, could not furnish a long-lasting and sustainable solution (see the Second Reading of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Bill (Bill No 33/2019), Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report (5 November 2019), vol 94 (Mr Edwin Tong Chun Fai, Senior Minister of State for Law (“Senior Minister of State”)) (“the 2019 Parliamentary Debates”) as well as the Address delivered at the Opening of The Legal Year 2020 on 6 January 2020 by the Honourable the Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon at paras 9–10).
Turning to specific developments proper, under the new regime the AD will hear a portion of the civil appeals from the Gen Div. As already alluded to at the outset of this judgment, all such appeals would have previously been heard by the Court of Appeal as the then sole appellate court. With the present structure, the AD serves the purpose of alleviating the aforementioned growing caseload of the Court of Appeal (from a quantitative perspective) whilst simultaneously permitting the latter to focus its resources on matters which would benefit from its expertise as the apex court of the land (from a qualitative perspective). It should also be noted that the amendments introduced by the SCJA(A) aim to preserve the status quo in so far as the powers and jurisdiction of the Gen Div (ie, the former High Court) are concerned.
It bears mention that whilst in the vast majority of cases, once an appeal has been heard by the AD, the AD will serve as the final appellate court, there is nevertheless provision for a tightly confined and highly limited avenue of appeal to the Court of Appeal. The stringent requirements (which I elaborate upon below at [7], [38] and [61]) are not surprising as a liberal route that frequently bypasses the AD would result in a severe undermining of the rationale for establishing the AD in the first place. That having been said, in the interests of justice, there nevertheless exist provisions that will enable – in rare and exceptional instances – a qualifying appeal to be heard by the Court of Appeal.
In a broad sense, there are two avenues by which cases on the AD’s docket may be heard by the Court of Appeal. The first is where leave to appeal against a decision of the AD is sought and granted by the Court of Appeal pursuant to s 47 of the SCJA. In this situation, it should be noted that the AD has already heard an appeal and delivered its decision. It follows that any further appeal to the Court of Appeal would only be granted in extremely rare situations (which I elaborate upon below at [38]).
The second is where an appeal is transferred from the AD to the Court of Appeal pursuant to s 29D(1)(a) of the SCJA. Unlike the first situation, this particular avenue or route bypasses the AD in so far as the Court of Appeal would hear the appeal instead of the AD; put simply, the appellant concerned “leapfrogs” the AD and goes straight to the Court of Appeal. Indeed, the present application falls within this particular category. More specifically, it is an application by the appellants to transfer their appeal (“the Appeal”) against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) in Noor Azlin bte Abdul Rahman and another v Changi General Hospital Pte Ltd and others [2021] SGHC 10 (“the Judgment”) from the AD to the Court of Appeal. 
It should also be noted that this application in CA/OS 9/2021 (“OS 9”) is the first contested application to transfer an appeal from the AD to the Court of Appeal. It would therefore be apposite to first elaborate on the background and context of the amendments that brought the AD into operation as well as on the statutory provisions and principles governing the transfer of appeals from the AD to the Court of Appeal. However, before proceeding to do so, I set out the particular facts and background to the present application. In addition to their usual importance, the precise facts and circumstances of the present case are – as we shall see – even more significant, not least because the prior issues relating to the substantive liability of the respondent had, in fact, already been dealt with by the Court of Appeal in prior proceedings (see Noor Azlin bte Abdul Rahman v Changi General Hospital Pte Ltd and others [2019] 1 SLR 834 (“the first CA Judgment”)).
To say that the case has had a long tail is to put it mildly. The genesis of the dispute can be traced to 31 October 2007 when Ms Noor Azlin bte Abdul Rahman (“Ms Azlin”) visited the Accident and Emergency Department of the respondent, Changi General Hospital Pte Ltd (“A&E” and “CGH”, respectively), complaining of lower chest pain and shortness of breath. Ms Azlin subsequently visited CGH three more times (specifically, on 15 November 2007, 29 April 2010 and 31 July 2011). On all four occasions, X-rays and other medical procedures revealed an opacity in Ms Azlin’s lungs. It was only on 16 February 2012 that a biopsy of the growth of abnormal tissues (ie, the nodule) in Ms Azlin’s lungs revealed that the nodule was malignant. 
Ms Azlin commenced legal proceedings against CGH on 20 January 2015 in HC/S 59/2015 (“Suit 59”). Her claim was dismissed by the Judge in Noor Azlin bte Abdul Rahman v Changi General Hospital Pte Ltd and others [2019] 3 SLR 1063 (“the first HC Judgment”) after a 28-day trial (“the Original Hearing”). Ms Azlin appealed and her appeal in CA/CA 47/2018 (“the Original Appeal”) was allowed in part by the Court of Appeal in the first CA Judgment. 
The most relevant findings in the first CA Judgment can be summarised briefly:  (a) First, Ms Azlin had shown, on a balance of probabilities, that she had lung cancer by July 2011 (see the first CA Judgment at [105] and [114]).  (b) Second, CGH had breached its duty of care to Ms Azlin by failing to ensure that there was proper follow-up in her case even though the radiological reports from April 2010 and July 2011 recommended follow-up on the opacity in the right mid-zone of her chest. There were also serious inadequacies in CGH’s patient management system (see the first CA Judgment at [96]–[101]).  (c) Third, CGH’s negligence caused a delay in diagnosing Ms Azlin with lung cancer (see the first CA Judgment at [116]) which, more likely than not, caused her to suffer from nodal metastasis and all the consequences that may have followed (see the first CA Judgment at [122]). (d) Fourth and finally, the case was remitted back to the Judge to assess and quantify the loss and damage occasioned to Ms Azlin due to the delayed diagnosis of lung cancer (see the first CA Judgment at [124]–[125]). 
As will be seen later, it is of particular relevance to OS 9 that Suit 59 was not bifurcated. This meant that while the Original Appeal focussed on the Judge’s finding that CGH was not liable for the losses occasioned to Ms Azlin, a portion of the evidence (albeit somewhat lacking) before the Court of Appeal was relevant to the quantification of her losses. 
Ms Azlin passed away on 1 April 2019 from lung cancer, a month after the first CA Judgment was released. After her passing, the second appellant, Mr Azmi bin Abdul Rahman (“Mr Azmi”), her older brother, was added as a party to continue the action in his capacity as executor of her estate (“the Estate”) . 
The Judge heard the parties on damages over a 6-day trial in August and September 2020 (“the AOD Hearing”) and released the Judgment on 19 January 2021. She awarded the Estate a sum of $326,620.61. This was broken down as follows:  (a) $304,000 in general damages comprising $250,000 for pain and suffering and loss of amenity, and $54,000 for the dependency claim; and  (b) $22,620.61 for special damages comprising $19,620.61 for medical expenses and $3,000 for transport expenses. 
Dissatisfied, the appellants filed a notice of appeal in AD/CA 22/2021 on 18 February 2021 (ie, the present forum for the Appeal). OS 9 was filed on 12 March 2021. Apart from the Appeal, there remain four pending proceedings related to Ms Azlin’s claim: (a) The determination of costs for the Original Appeal remains pending before the Court of Appeal.  (b) The determination of costs for Suit 59 remains pending before the Court of Appeal.  (c) The taxation of the bill of costs for disbursements in the AOD Hearing for Suit 59.  (d) The costs of HC/SUM 3339/2019 to add Mr Azmi to Suit 59. 
With this background in mind, I turn to the issues raised in OS 9. 
The overarching issue in OS 9 is whether it would be more appropriate for the Court of Appeal to hear the Appeal. As argued by the parties, this may be broken down into the following sub-issues:  (a) Issue 1: Whether the Appeal relates to a matter of national or public importance under O 56A r 12(3)(a) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Ed) (“ROC”).  (b) Issue 2: Whether the Appeal will raise a point of law of public importance under O 56A r 12(3)(b) of the ROC.  (c) Issue 3: Whether the Appeal relates to complex and novel issues under O 56A r 12(3)(c) of the ROC. (d) Issue 4: Whether the results of the Appeal will be of significance under O 56A r 12(3)(f) of the ROC. (e) Issue 5: Whether there are any other relevant matters which militate in favour of a transfer under O 56A r 12(3)(g) of the ROC. 
As a preliminary point, the appellants submit that the Appeal can only be heard by the Court of Appeal, and not the AD, because Suit 59 was commenced in 2015 and thus predated the new amendments to the SCJA and ROC. 
Even if the AD is the correct court to hear the Appeal, the appellants contend that a transfer should be ordered under s 29D(1)(a) of the SCJA on the following statutorily prescribed grounds under O 56A r 12(3) of the ROC: (a) First, the Appeal relates to a matter of public importance and/or will raise a point of law of public importance – ie, in what circumstances will s 10(3)(a) of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed) (“CLA”) apply (see O 56A rr 12(3)(a) and 12(3)(b) of the ROC)?  (b) Second, the Appeal relates to a matter of public importance and/or will raise a point of law of public importance – ie, in what circumstances will punitive and/or aggravated damages be awarded for a defendant’s unreasonable conduct of proceedings (see O 56A rr 12(3)(a) and 12(3)(b) of the ROC)? (c) Third, the Appeal raises novel issues and its results will be of significance because there are no precedents quantifying damages for cancer patients (see O 56A rr 12(3)(c) and 12(3)(f) of the ROC).  (d) Fourth, there are other relevant matters which make it more appropriate for the Court of Appeal to hear the Appeal (see O 56A r 12(3)(g) of the ROC). 
CGH, on the other hand, argues that the new amendments to the SCJA and ROC apply to the present case. In its view, no good reasons militate in favour of the Court of Appeal hearing the Appeal. 
The AD is designed to share in the Court of Appeal’s caseload by hearing civil appeals against decisions of the Gen Div (see above at [5]). To bring flexibility to this allocation while maintaining efficiency, there is a default allocation of appeals and a subsequent opportunity to transfer the already-allocated appeals between the two appellate courts. 
As the statutory scheme governing the allocation of appeals is new, and as yet unexplored, I take the opportunity to explain the design and architecture of the default allocation of appeals in the following section. A broad overview of the statutory scheme will also be set out at [37] below. 
The default allocation of appeals has both a temporal and subject matter dimension. The temporal dimension refers to the version of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) that applies to the appeal concerned – ie, the present SCJA or the version prior to 2 January 2021 (“pre-2 Jan 2021 SCJA”). The subject matter dimension refers to the categories of civil appeals that are in a sense “reserved” to the Court of Appeal by default under the SCJA. It is necessary to first determine the appropriate version of the legislation because the subject matter dimension is premised on the applicability of the SCJA to the appeal.
The savings and transitional provisions governing the amendments to the SCJA as well as the accompanying amendments to the 2 January 2021 version of the ROC as provided for in the Rules of Court (Amendment No 5) Rules 2020 (S 1043/2020) (“ROC(A)”) can be found at ss 31 and 32 of the SCJA(A) and r 14 of the ROC(A) respectively. For ease of reference, I refer to the version of the ROC prior to 2 January 2021 as the “pre-2 Jan 2021 ROC”. 
The key date when considering the above provisions is 2 January 2021. On that day, the old High Court became the Gen Div and the AD came into operation. Section 31(5) of the SCJA(A) is of particular importance. It makes explicit that proceedings in the High Court begun prior to 2 January 2021 are deemed to be proceedings in the Gen Div on or after 2 January 2021. The subsection provides as follows:  (5) To avoid doubt, proceedings begun in the High Court (other than proceedings of the Family Division of the High Court or of the Singapore International Commercial Court) before the date of commencement of this subsection continue, on or after that date, in the General Division of the High Court, as if the proceedings had begun in the General Division of the High Court.  [emphasis added] By way of illustration, a suit or originating summons commenced in the High Court on 1 January 2021, continues as a matter before the Gen Div on 2 January 2021. Any judgment rendered in respect of this matter on or after 2 January 2021 is a decision of the Gen Div rendered by a judge of the Gen Div.
The temporal dimension to the default allocation of appeals can be represented through the following chart: 